The Name of This Book Is Secret by Pseudonymous Bosch 

For W.P. May 

Warning: Do not read beyond this page!  

Good.

Now I know I can trust you.

You’re curious. You’re brave. And you’re not afraid to lead a life of crime.
But let’s get something straight: if, despite my warning, you insist on reading this book, you can’t hold me responsible for the consequences.
And, make no bones about it, this is a very dangerous book.
No, it won’t blow up in your face. Or bite your head off. Or tear you limb from limb.
It probably won’t injure you at all. Unless somebody throws it at you, which is a possibility that should never be discounted.
Generally speaking, books don’t cause much harm. Except when you read them, that is. Then they cause all kinds of problems.
Books can, for example, give you ideas. I don’t know if you’ve ever had an idea before, but, if you have, you know how much trouble an idea can get you into.
Books can also provoke emotions. And emotions sometimes are even more troublesome than ideas. Emotions have led people to do all sorts of things they later regret—like, oh, throwing a book at someone else.
But the main reason this book is so dangerous is that it concerns a secret.
A big secret.
It’s funny the way secrets work. If you don’t know about a secret, it doesn’t bother you. You go about your business without a care in the world.
La la la, you sing. Everything’s fine and dandy. (Maybe you don’t actually sing “la la la,” but you know what I mean.)
But as soon as you hear about the secret, it starts to nag at you. What is this secret? you wonder. Why am I not supposed to know about it? Why is it so important?
Suddenly, you’re dying to know what the secret is.
You beg. You plead. You threaten. You cajole. You promise never to tell anyone else. You try anything and everything. You dig into the secret-keeper’s belongings. You pull his or her hair. And when that doesn’t work, you pull your own.
Not knowing a secret is just about the worst thing in the world.
No, I can think of one thing worse.
Knowing a secret.
Read on, if you must.
But, remember, I warned you.


Chapter One xxxxxx

Xxxx xxxx x xxxx, xxxxx xxx x xxx xxx x xxxx. Xxxx xxxx xxxx x xxxxx xxxx xx Xxxxxxx. Xxxx xxxxx xxxxx Xxxxxxxxx xxx Xxx-Xxxxxx. Xxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxx xxx. Xxxxx’x xxxxxxxxxxxxx, xx x xxxxxxxxx.
Xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx x Xxxx xx xxxxxx xxx. Xxxx x xxxxxxx. Xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx xx Xxxxxx Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx? Xxxxxxxxxxxxx. Xxxxxxxxxxx. X xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxxx xxx xx xxxxx. Xxxxxxx xxxxxx, xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxx. Xxxxx xxxxx. Xxxxx.
Xxxxxxx xx, xxxx xxxxx, xxxxx xx xxx.
Xxxx’x?, xxx xxx.
Xxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx’x...Xxxxx xxxxxxx Xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxx xxxxxxxxxxx xx, xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxx xxxx x xxxxxxxxxxx...Xxxxx xxxxxxxx’x xx xxxxx xxx xxxx xxxx xxx Xxxx.
“Xxxx,” Xxxxxxxxx xxxxx, “Xxx xxxxxx?”
“Xx!” Xxx-Xxxxxx xxxx.
Xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx; x xxxx xx xxxxxx xxx. Xxxx x xxxxxxx. Xxxxxx xxxxxxxx Xxxxx’x xx xxxxxx, xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx? Xxxx xxxxxxxxx. Xxxxxxxxxxx. (Xxxxxx xxx xxx xxxxxxx xxxx xxxxxx.) Xxxx, Xxx-Xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx xxxxx xx x x xxxxxx xx xxxx. Xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxx. Xxxxx xxxxx, Xxxxx. Xxxx x xxxx, xxxxx.
Xxxxxxx, xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx. Xxxxx xx xxxxx, xxxx xxxx x xxxxx xxx xxxx. Xxxxxxxxx, Xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxx, xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxx xxxx x xxxxx xxxxxx...
X xxxxx xxxxxxxx Xxxxxx xx xxxxxx, xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx? Xxxx xxxxxxxxx. Xxxxxxxxxxx? Xxx xxxx xxx xxx xxxxxxx xxxx xxxxxx. Xxxx, xxxxxxxx xxxx xxxxx xx x x xxxxxx xx xxxx. (Xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxx.) X xxxxxx xxxx Xxxxx xx xxxxx xxx x xxxxxxxx.
“Xxxx,” Xxxx xxxx, “Xxxxxxxx!!!!”
Xxxxxxx xx x xxxxxxx x Xxx-Xxxxxx xxx, xxxxx xxx xxxx x xxxxxx xxx xxxxx xx xxxxxxxxxxxx.
Xxxx, xxxx, xxx xxxxxx, xxxx xxxx xxxxxxx.
Xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx x xxxx xx Xxxxxx xxx. Xxxx x xxxxxxx. Xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx xx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx? Xxxxxxxxxxxxx. X xxxxxxxxxx. X xxxxxx xxxxxx, Xxx-Xxxxxx xxxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxx. Xxxxx xxxxx! Xxxxx!
Xxxx Xxxxx xxxxxx x xxxxxxxx.
X xxxxxx xxx x xxxxxxx x xxxx xxxx, Xxxxxxxxx xxx Xxx-Xxxxxx xxxx x xxxxxx xxx x xxxxx xx xxxx xxxxxxxx.
Xxx xxx xxxxx.
X xxxxx.
Xxxx?
Xxx, Xxxx.
Xxx xx xxxxxx xxx xxxxx...


Chapter one and a half

apologia apologia apologia apologia apologia apologia apologia apologia apologia apologia apologia apologia apol
*An apologia, If you're wondering, is not a variety of insect. Neither is it a type of cancerous tumor. It's an apology. In other words, it's not worth the paper it's written on. 

I’m sorry I couldn’t let you read Chapter One.
That was where you would have learned the names of the characters in this story. You also would have learned where it takes place. And when. You would have learned all the things you usually learn at the beginning of a book.
Unfortunately, I can’t tell you any of those things.
Yes, this is a story about a secret. But it’s also a secret story.
I shouldn’t even be telling you that I shouldn’t be telling you the story. That’s how much of a secret it is.
Not only can’t I tell you the names of the people involved, I can’t even tell you what they’ve done or why.
I can’t tell you what kind of pets they have. Or how many annoying little brothers. Or how many bossy big sisters. Or whether they like their ice cream plain or with mix-ins.
I can’t tell you about their schools or their friends or their favorite television shows. Or if they ride skateboards. Or if they are champion chess players. Or if they compete in fencing competitions. Or even if they wear braces.
In short, I can’t tell you anything that would help you identify the people involved in this story if you were to meet them at your orthodontist’s office. (Teeth, as you may know from watching television, are very useful when detectives are identifying cadavers.)
This is for your own protection as well as mine. And for the protection of your friends. And even of your enemies. (You know, those ones you say you want to kill but in the end you’d rather keep alive.)
Still, you must find my silence very frustrating.
How can you follow a story if you don’t know whom it’s about? Somebody has got to be getting lost in the woods, or slaying dragons, or traveling in time, or whatever it is that happens in the story.
I’ll tell you what—I’ll make you a deal.
To help you follow my story, I’m going to break my own rule—already!—and I’m going to give my characters names and faces. But remember these aren’t their real names and faces. They’re more like code names or cover identities, like a spy or a criminal would have.
If you don’t like a name I choose, change it. If I write “Tim loved to pick his nose,” and you prefer the name Tom to Tim, then read the line as “Tom loved to pick his nose.” I won’t take offense. You can do that with all the names in this book if you like.
Or keep my names. It’s up to you.
Now, just as it’s hard to read a story without knowing whom the story’s about, it’s also hard to read a story without knowing where the story takes place. Even if you were reading about extraterrestrials from another dimension, you’d want to imagine something about their surroundings. Like that they lived in a murky green miasma. Or in some place really hot.
Although the real location of this story will have to remain a mystery, to make it easier for all of us, why don’t we say the story takes place in a place you know very well?
We’ll call it Your Hometown.
When you read about the town the characters live in, just think of the town you live in. Is the town big or little? By the sea or by a lake? Or is your town all asphalt and shopping malls? You tell me.
When you read about the characters’ school, think of Your School. Is it in an old one-room schoolhouse or in a bunch of double wide mobile homes? You decide.
When they go home, imagine they live on Your Street, maybe even in a house right across from yours.
Who knows, maybe Your Street is where the story really takes place. I wouldn’t tell you if it was. But I couldn’t tell you for certain that it’s not.
In return for all the freedom I’m giving you, I ask only one favor: if I ever slip and reveal something that I shouldn’t—and I will!—please forget what I’ve said as soon as possible.
In fact, when you’re reading this book, it’s a good idea to forget everything you read as soon as you read it. If you’re one of those people who can read with their eyes closed, I urge you to do so. And, if you’re blind and reading this in braille, keep your hands off the page!
Why do I write under such awful circumstances? Wouldn’t it be better to scrap this book altogether and do something else?
Oh, I could give you all kinds of reasons.
I could tell you that I write this book so you will learn from the mistakes of others. I could tell you that, as dangerous as writing this book is, it would be even more dangerous not to write it.
But the real reason is nothing so glorious. It’s very simple.
I can’t keep a secret. Never could.
I hope you have better luck.


Chapter two A Wednesday

True, I cannot tell you the year this story begins, or even the month. But I see no harm in telling you the day.
It was a Wednesday.
A humble, unremarkable day. The middle child in the weekday family. A Wednesday has to work hard to be noticed. Most people let each one pass without comment.
But not the heroine of our story. She is the kind of girl who notices things that others don’t.
Meet Cassandra.
Wednesday is her favorite day. She believes it’s just when you least expect something earth-shattering to happen that it does.
According to Greek myth, the original Cassandra was a princess of ancient Troy. She was very beautiful, and Apollo, god of the sun, fell in love with her.
When she rejected him, Apollo became so angry he placed a curse on her: he gave her the power to predict the future, but he also ensured that nobody would believe her predictions. Imagine knowing that your whole world was about to be destroyed by a tornado or typhoon, and then having nobody believe you when you told them. What misery!
Unlike the Cassandra of myth, the girl who figures in our story is not a prophet. She cannot see into the future. Nor has she been cursed by a god, at least not to my knowledge. But she resembles a prophet in that she is always predicting disaster. Earthquakes, hurricanes, plagues—she is an expert in all things terrible and she sees evidence of them everywhere.
That is why I am calling her Cassandra—or Cass, for short.
As you know, I cannot describe Cass in detail. But this much I will tell you: from the outside, Cass looks like a typical eleven-year-old. Her major distinguishing feature is that she has rather large, pointy ears. And before you tell me that I shouldn’t have told you about the ears, let me explain that she almost always covers her ears with her hair or with a hat. So chances are you will never see them.
While she may look like other girls, Cass is in other respects a very un-average sort of person. She doesn’t play games involving fortune-telling or jump rope or strings of any kind. She doesn’t even watch television very often. She doesn’t own a single pair of soft suede boots lined with fleece. She wouldn’t even want a pair, unless they were waterproof and could protect her in a snowstorm.
As you can tell, Cass is very practical; she has no time for trivial matters.
Her motto: Be Prepared.
Her mission: to make sure that she and her friends and family survive all the disasters that befall them.
Cass is a survivalist.
These are things Cass carries in her backpack every day:
Flashlight
Compass
Silver Mylar space blanket—surprisingly warm if you haven’t tried one; also has useful reflective properties
Box of juice—usually grape, doubles as ink in a pinch
Bubble gum—for its sticking value, and because chewing helps her concentrate
Cass’s patented “super-chip” trail mix—chocolate chips, peanut-butter chips, banana chips, potato chips (and no raisins, ever!)
Topographic maps—of all the closest desert and mountain areas, as well as of Micronesia and the Galápagos Islands
Rope
Tool kit
First-aid kit
Dust mask
Extra pair of socks and shoes—in case of flash floods and other wet conditions
Matches—technically not allowed at school
Plastic knife—because a jackknife is really not allowed
Schoolbooks and homework—when she remembers, which is not very often (she keeps forgetting to put schoolwork on her supplies checklist)
On the evidence of the items in her backpack, you might guess that Cass had led a very adventurous life. But you would be wrong. The truth is, up until the time this story begins, none of the disasters she predicted had befallen her. There’d been no earthquakes at school—none strong enough to shatter a window, anyway. The mildew in her mother’s shower turned out to be just that—not the killer mold Cass predicted. And that child spinning around on the grass did not have mad cow disease—he was just having a good time.
Cass didn’t exactly mind that her predictions hadn’t come true. After all, she didn’t wish for disaster. But she couldn’t help wishing people took her concerns more seriously.
Instead, everyone was always reminding her about the boy who cried wolf. Naturally, they took that story to mean the boy shouldn’t have cried wolf when there weren’t any. But Cass knew the true moral of the story: that the boy was right, there really were wolves around, and they’d get you in the end if you didn’t watch out.
Better to cry wolf over and over than never to cry wolf at all.
Of all the people in the world, only two paid attention to Cass’s predictions: Grandpa Larry and Grandpa Wayne.
Larry and Wayne weren’t Cass’s original, biological grandfathers. They were her substitute grandfathers. Larry had been Cass’s mother’s history teacher in high school, and they’d remained friends ever since. Since neither of Cass’s original grandfathers were around, Cass’s mother asked Larry and Wayne to fill in.
Larry and Wayne lived around the corner from Cass in an old abandoned fire station. The bottom floor, where the fire engines had been kept, they had converted to an antiques store and warehouse. Their living quarters were upstairs, where in the old days the firemen had slept between fires.
Every Wednesday after school, Cass was supposed to work in their shop until her mother called to say dinner was ready. But, in truth, very little work ever got done at the fire station.
“You’re just in time for tea,” Grandpa Larry would say whenever she visited.
Grandpa Larry wasn’t British, but he’d spent time in England when he was in the army and he’d developed a serious tea habit. Cass thought Larry’s elaborate tea rituals were a little silly, but she loved the cookies Larry made (he called them “biscuits”) and the stories he told while their tea was brewing. By now, Cass suspected that most of his stories were exaggerated, if not entirely made up, but they always included useful information—like how to put up a tent in a sandstorm or how to milk a camel.
On the particular Wednesday that this story begins, Larry was showing Cass how to make a compass by placing a cork in a bowl of water.* The compass was almost complete, and the cork just about to point north, when her grandfathers’ basset hound, Sebastian, started barking so noisily that the water shook out of the edge of the bowl.
Sebastian was blind, and now that he was growing old he was very nearly deaf as well. But he had the keenest sense of smell in town—everyone called him “Sebastian, the Seeing-Nose Dog”—and he always knew when visitors were about to enter the shop.
“Fire drill!” called Grandpa Wayne from down below, which was their code for when a customer had arrived.
“Guess the compass will have to wait,” grumbled Grandpa Larry. “Now get down. Smoke rises, so the best way to keep breathing is to stay low to the ground.”
He and Cass crouched down and pulled their shirts over their noses, as if the room were filling with smoke. Larry pointed to the station’s old brass fire pole: “Ladies first.”
Cass eagerly grabbed the pole and stepped out into the opening in the floor.
“Wait,” said Larry. “Promise not to tell your mother?”

you break it
you hide it

The customer is always right.
The customer is NEVER right.
If it ain't broke don't fix it.
If it ain't broke don't sell it.

“Promise,” said Cass, already starting to slide.
Despite the fact that it was their job, Cass’s grandfathers couldn’t bear to sell anything; they loved all their things too much.
As a result, their store was crammed so tight it was like a huge maze with walls of furniture. Every surface was covered with stuff they’d collected—from old clown paintings to mechanical monkeys to broken typewriters to things you couldn’t describe if you tried.
By the time Larry and Cass had navigated their way through, the front door was opening to reveal a short pair of legs staggering under the weight of an enormous cardboard box.
As soon as he saw the box, Larry rushed to the doorway and threw his arms across it, barring the way.
“No, no, no! Bad Gloria!” he said sternly, as if he were addressing a dog and not a person under a box. “I told you last time, no more things. Look around. We’re stuffed to the gills.”
“At least let me put this down for a minute,” complained the voice of the unseen woman.
Taking pity on her, Larry grabbed hold of the box and placed it on the threshold. A small round woman in a bright yellow suit scowled at him. This was Gloria Fortune.
“Don’t you even want to hear where it comes from?” she asked, still red-faced and breathing hard under her tall beehive hairdo. “Such fascinating things... Well, never mind!” she said brightly. “Is there a Dumpster in back?”
Larry almost choked. “No! I mean, yes, there’s a Dumpster, but...you’re not...you wouldn’t... throw the box away?” he asked, as if Gloria were threatening murder.
Gloria smiled slyly as she twisted a curl of hair that had sprung loose. “Sorry, Larry. You’re my last resort. I certainly don’t have any room.”
Larry hesitated. “In that case—why don’t you come inside for a cup of tea, and I’ll just take a peek, before you do anything rash—”
Gloria grinned victoriously. “You won’t regret it,” she said, entering the store.
Sheepishly, Larry picked up the box and followed her back inside.
“Sorry,” he whispered to Cass. “This should only take a second, er, minute, er, five, er, ten...twenty minutes at the most....”
Gloria, as Cass learned over her third—or was it her fourth?—cup of tea, was a real estate agent, a “probate specialist,” meaning that she sold houses after their owners passed away. She was, in effect, a real estate agent for the dead.
Gloria loved to gossip, and Larry was always ready to listen to ghoulish tales about her dead clients. (Wayne, who was a retired auto mechanic, always left to go fix something when Gloria was around.) As for the box of stuff she had just brought, it came from the home of a “strange and reclusive man—some kind of magician or something. What I call a real old coot,” Gloria said.
“Watch it, Gloria,” said Grandpa Larry. “Some of us are pretty cootish ourselves!”
The magician, Gloria continued obliviously, had died very suddenly several months earlier in a kitchen fire, the source of which was never determined. He had no known relations or survivors. “Not a single friend left, poor man.”
Because the magician’s house was so “off the beaten path” his death might never have been discovered had not his gardener investigated the terrible smell emanating from the kitchen.
Cass nodded knowingly at this bit of information. “The smell of decomposing flesh can be very strong,” she said, trying to show she was familiar with cases of this kind (although, I hasten to point out, her knowledge of corpses was not yet firsthand).
“True,” sniffed Gloria. “But actually what the gardener was smelling was something else. Sulfurous, he described it. Like huevos podridos.”
“That means ‘rotten eggs’ in Spanish,” said Cass, who was studying the language at school.
“I thought it meant Talky Girls,” said Gloria pointedly.
Cass considered it wise not to say anything more, and she excused herself to do some homework, pretending she was no longer interested in the story of the dead magician. But she continued to listen, or, as you might call it, eavesdrop, while Gloria finished telling her story.
In fact, almost nothing of the magician’s body was left—smelly or otherwise. The fire had been so intense that only a few of his teeth remained. (See, I warned you about teeth.) Curiously, while the magician’s entire kitchen was incinerated, the rest of the house was left unscathed, as if the fire had gone out as quickly as it had started.
According to Gloria, the source of the noxious aroma was never found, and traces of it still lingered. She hoped it wouldn’t hamper the sale of the house, which was going to be difficult enough thanks to the house’s “quirky and offbeat” character.
Gloria pronounced these words as if they were slightly distasteful, but Cass, not knowing precisely what they meant, thought they sounded just grand. She decided if she ever bought a house she would want to buy one just like the magician’s.
After Gloria left, Wayne rejoined the others to rifle through the magician’s belongings. Mostly, the contents of the box were disappointing. What Gloria had described as a “contraption for mixing potions” turned out to be an ordinary kitchen mixer. And what she had guessed was “something to make objects disappear” was in fact a piece of exercise equipment.
They thought they’d extracted everything they could, when Sebastian started barking excitedly. The blind dog circled the box, sniffing it, like there was something inside he really wanted. Or something inside he was really scared of. Or both.
Cass pushed aside the last remaining bits of newspaper at the bottom and saw something they’d missed earlier: another box. Sebastian’s barks grew louder as she pulled it out.
The box was flat, about the size and shape of a briefcase, and fitted with brass hinges and fastenings. It was made of a darkish, reddish, stripy type of wood, and it was carved with a design of swirling vines and flowers surrounding an uplifted face. The face was shown in profile inhaling what looked like curling smoke.
“Rosewood,” Wayne said, taking the box from Cass so that he could examine it more closely. “Too large for a cigar box....Maybe a cutlery case?”
Larry nodded. “Probably...Art Nouveau design. About a hundred years old. French?”* He took the box from Wayne and held it up to look at the bottom. “No markings. Looks like one of a kind.”
“Can I open it?” Cass asked. She knew from experience they could go on for hours if she didn’t stop them.
Wayne nudged Larry, and Larry handed her the box. “Go ahead,” he said, although, no doubt, he would have liked to open it himself.
With a substitute grandfather peering over each shoulder, Cass carefully sprang the latch and raised the lid. From their gasps, Cass could tell they’d never seen anything like it before. She certainly hadn’t.
The interior of the box was upholstered in lustrous purple velvet. Nestled in the velvet, and arranged in four concentric semicircles, were dozens of sparkling crystal vials. Most of these vials (Cass later counted ninety-nine of them) contained liquids in a variety of colors: lavender water, amber oil, alcohol in an alarming shade of green. Other vials were filled with powders of various degrees of fineness; others with flower petals, leaves, herbs and spices, shards of wood and bark, even dirt. One vial held a single strand of hair.
“What is this, some kind of chemistry set?” Cass wondered aloud.
“Hmm, could be,” said Larry. “Did you know that in England pharmacists are called chemists?”
Touching the velvet for the first time, Cass noticed something that had been hidden by a fold: a small brass plaque on which someone had engraved the words:

The Symphony of Smells

“‘The Symphony of Smells’?”
“Maybe it’s a perfume-making kit,” suggested Wayne.
Cass pulled out a vial and opened it. A sharp citrus aroma was released into the air.
“Lemon?” she guessed.
She handed the vial to Wayne and pulled out another. They spent the next few minutes opening vials, and guessing the scents they contained: mint, lime, root beer (“sassafras,” Larry called it), wet wool, old socks, freshly mown grass.
“I think it’s a kind of smelling game,” said Cass, who was enjoying herself immensely. “To train your nose. Like if you were a detective. So you would know what you were smelling in an emergency. Or at the scene of a crime.”
“Whatever it is, my nose is getting very tired,” said Larry.
“Just one more,” said Cass, picking up a vial from the end of the second row. There was a hairline crack in the vial, and it was nearly empty, save for a light dusting of yellow powder. She opened it—and recognized the smell immediately.
It was the smell of huevos podridos. Rotten eggs.

Chapter three
and now introducing... Max-Ernest

QUESTION: What is not enough for one, just right for two, and too much for three?
ANSWER: A secret.
Max-Ernest, eleven-year-old aspiring stand-up comedian, had read the joke—really a riddle, if you want to get technical—in one of his seventeen joke books, and now he was trying it on each of his twenty-six classmates in turn.
None of his classmates laughed. Or even smiled.
Most of them were so tired of his jokes that they didn’t bother to respond at all. Those who did said things on the order of “Uh huh” and “Whatever” and “That’s stupid” and “No more jokes—it’s so annoying, Max-Ernest!” and “Why can’t you just have one name like a normal person?”
You or I would probably burst into tears if our jokes met with such negative reactions, but Max-Ernest was used to it. He never let what other people said upset him.
He was going to be the funniest and best stand-up comedian of all time. He just needed to practice.
Max-Ernest looked around the school yard for a student who hadn’t heard his joke yet. There was only one. She was squatting by the edge of the soccer field, a baseball cap on the ground beside her.
He didn’t know her personally because they didn’t have any classes together. But he recognized her on the basis of a certain physical feature: her big, pointy ears.
Since I’ve already made the mistake of describing Cass’s most identifiable trait (yes, her ears! I thought she never exposed them, but I guess I was wrong), I may as well describe our other hero, Max-Ernest, for you. But remember what I said about forgetting what I said? Try to erase the image of Max-Ernest from your head as fast as you can—for your own safety.
Aside from his small size, the first thing you would have noticed about Max-Ernest was his hair. Each strand stood on end, as though he were a cartoon character who had just stuck his finger in an electrical socket.
His hairstyle was not a fashion choice; it was a philosophical one. Max-Ernest cut every hair on his head the exact same length because he didn’t like to favor one hair over another. Hairs may be made of dead cells, he reasoned, but they’re still growing things, and each one deserves to be treated fairly. (If you think this point of view is a bit odd or eccentric, well, I’d have to agree.)
That hair is dead but still growing is what is known as a paradox: something that seems impossible but is nonetheless true. Max-Ernest was very fond of paradoxes, as he was of all kinds of riddles and puzzles and word games.
Max-Ernest also liked math. And history. And science. And just about any subject you can think of.
Despite his diminutive stature, Max-Ernest attracted attention wherever he went. He couldn’t help it. As you will soon discover yourself, Max-Ernest was a talker. A big talker. He talked all the time. Even in his sleep.
His “condition,” as his parents called it, was so extreme that they’d taken him to numerous experts in hopes of finding a diagnosis.
The first expert said he had attention deficit disorder. The second expert said the first was out of order. One expert said he was autistic, another that he was artistic. One said he had Tourette’s syndrome. One said he had Asperger’s syndrome. And one said the problem was that his parents had Munchausen syndrome.
Still another said all he needed was a good old-fashioned spanking.
They gave him pills to take and exercises to practice. But the more ways people tried to cure him, the worse the problem got. Instead of stopping his talking, each cure gave him a new thing to talk about.
In the end, the experts weren’t able to agree on a name for Max-Ernest’s condition any more than his parents had been able to agree on a name for him.

How Max-Ernest became Max-Ernest a short story.

Max-Ernest was a preemie. That is, he was born prematurely—about six weeks earlier than expected.
Prior to his entering the world, his parents hadn’t done anything to prepare for his arrival. They had no stroller, no crib, no annoying musical toys, no baby wipes, no box of diapers. There were still plenty of pointy, dangerous things around the house.
And they had no name for their baby.
As the lump of shriveled pink flesh that would become Max-Ernest lay in the hospital incubator, like a small chicken (or maybe rabbit?) roasting in a glass oven, his parents argued about what to call him.
His mother wanted to name him after her father, Max, but his father wanted to name him after his father, Ernest. Neither parent would budge. Max-Ernest’s mother declared she would rather her child have no name at all than have a crusty old name like Ernest. His father swore that he’d rather have no child at all than that his child have a meager, mini little name like Max.
Being only a few days old, Max-Ernest was unable to tell his parents which name he preferred. But that didn’t stop them. When he cried, Max-Ernest’s mother took it as evidence that he hated the name Ernest and wanted the name Max. When he spit up on his chin, his father said it was a sign that he hated the name Max and wanted the name Ernest.
Finally, a nurse threatened to put their child up for adoption if they didn’t reach a decision. So Max-Ernest’s parents decided to split the difference and put both names on his birth certificate. But the argument left them so bitter and angry that they got a divorce as soon as they left the hospital with their baby.
Now eleven years old, Max-Ernest has been able to speak quite clearly for a long time. But whenever his parents ask him which name he prefers, as they do every year on his birthday, he goes mute. He knows that to choose one name over the other is actually to choose one parent over the other, and, like most children, he’d rather do anything than do that.
Thus Max-Ernest has two names to this very day and very likely will keep them for the rest of his life. The End.
At the exact moment Max-Ernest eyed her from across the school yard, Cassandra was digging in the mud with her bare hands. Dirt kept getting under her fingernails, and she muttered to herself that she should be wearing protective gloves. It wasn’t like her to be so unprepared.
She glanced a few feet away to a spot under the bleachers, where a small gray furry thing was lying in the grass: a dead mouse.
Sure, maybe the mouse had died of natural causes, Cass thought. But then why was she smelling rotten eggs again? What if the mouse had died from the same thing as the magician? What if the whole town were built over a toxic waste dump? If she didn’t do something about it, everybody she knew would perish!
Or should she let them? Maybe they didn’t deserve to live.
If you haven’t guessed already, Cass was having a bad day.
That morning, she had told her school’s principal, Mrs. Johnson, that she had reason to suspect their school was built on top of a toxic waste site. Cass made the sensible suggestion that Mrs. Johnson evacuate the school and order an excavation of the grounds.
Mrs. Johnson, who was a real stickler (“a principal with principles,” she called herself), gave Cass a stern look. “What’s the magic word, Cassandra? Whether you’re asking for an evacuation or a glass of water?”
“Please evacuate the school,” said Cass impatiently.
“That’s better. But the answer is still ‘No.’ What did I tell you about the boy who cried wolf?”
From there, the day only got worse:
“You look like you need a Smoochie.”
Amber caught Cass on her way out of the principal’s office and there was no escape. There was never any escape from Amber.
Amber was the nicest girl in school, and the third prettiest.*
Amber’s only fault, and it was more like a charming habit, was that she was “totally addicted,” as she put it, to a particular brand of lip balm called Sweet ’n Sassy Lip Smoochies by Romi and Montana. (Romi and Montana Skelton, otherwise known as the Skelton Sisters, were teen heiresses and television stars who controlled their own cosmetics empire; Amber “totally worshipped” them.) Every week, Amber got a new, differently flavored Smoochie, and she gave the previous week’s away. Most kids in school considered it a great honor to receive Amber’s half-used Smoochies, and they dangled them from their necks like Olympic medals. Cass, on the other hand, knew the only reason Amber gave her so many was that Amber felt sorry for her.
Cass hated people feeling sorry for her.
Each time she accepted a Smoochie, she promised herself she would refuse the next one, but Amber always managed to catch Cass when her guard was down. Before she knew it, Cass would find herself mumbling her thanks and shoving another Smoochie deep into her pocket.
That morning, Amber was accompanied by Veronica, the second prettiest girl in school (and not even the fourth or fifth nicest). After Veronica gushed about how sweet Amber was for giving Cass her Watermelon-Superburst Smoochie (as if it were an extra-good good deed to give it to Cass as opposed to someone else), Cass tried to enlist their support in uncovering the toxic waste. She figured if she got Amber and Veronica on her side, the whole school would rally to the cause.
Cass told them she knew there was toxic waste because the grass on the soccer field had turned yellow. And because all the dogs in the neighborhood acted nervous and pricked up their ears when they came near the school.
But all Amber said was, “Wow, you’re really smart, Cass.” And she left with Veronica, never bothering to answer Cass’s plea for help.
When they thought Cass was out of earshot, Veronica started giggling. “That’s why she has those ears. To pick up danger sounds. Like a dog.”
“Don’t be so mean, V,” Cass heard Amber say.
But she heard Amber giggling, too.
Covering her mouth with her shirt collar, and her hands with her cuffs, Cass started digging with renewed vigor. She wasn’t going to let Mrs. Johnson or Amber or anyone else stop her. And, later, when they all thanked her for saving their lives and begged her forgiveness—well, she’d decide what to do then.
Suddenly, she heard a voice behind her head.
“Hi, you’re Cassandra. I’m Max-Ernest. We don’t know each other. But I know who you are and you probably know who I am. Well, you definitely do now. But I mean you probably knew before because everybody here knows who everybody is. Even if they’ve never met. Isn’t that weird how you can know somebody and not know somebody at the same time? How ’bout that?”
Cass looked up to see a short—a mean person might say “puny”—kid looking down at her. It was true, she did know his name was Max-Ernest—but only because she’d heard other kids complaining about him. She could already see why he irritated them so much.
“So, you wanna hear a joke?” Max-Ernest asked.
Cass put her hat back on her head. “If it’s about my ears, I’ve heard them all before,” she said in a not very encouraging tone.
Max-Ernest swallowed nervously. “Actually, I think your ears are cool. They make you look like an elf. I mean, in a good way. Well, I think it’s good because elves are my favorite fictional humanoids. Well, favorite after orcs. Not that I would want to meet an orc. Besides, you don’t look anything like an orc. Or maybe I should quit while I’m ahead, right?”
He paused for a quick breath. When she didn’t take the opportunity to yell at him, he continued,
“Hey, do you think I talk too much? Everybody does. I don’t mean everybody talks too much, I mean everybody thinks I talk too much. Even my parents. They think I have a condition. My parents are psychologists. That means they’re doctors who cure people by talking. But my problem is talking and they don’t know how to cure me! How ’bout that?”
Cass didn’t know what to say, so she asked, “What was your joke?”
“Oh, I almost forgot! What is not enough for one, just right for two, and too much for three?”
“What?”
“A secret.”
She didn’t laugh any more than anyone else had.
“I don’t get it.”
“Well,” Max-Ernest explained patiently, “you can’t have a secret between yourself and yourself. You need someone else to have a secret with. That’s two people. But it’s not really a secret anymore if three people know it.”
Cass thought about this. “But that doesn’t make any sense. One person can have a secret. Three people can have a secret. It doesn’t matter how many people have a secret, as long as they don’t tell anybody else.”
Max-Ernest stared at her in surprise.
He was used to being ridiculed and teased and spat at and having his lunch stolen. But never before had anyone told him he didn’t make sense. He prided himself on his logical mind.
“No, no, you’re wrong!” he sputtered. “If you have a secret from somebody, they’re still two people!”
Cass shrugged. “Well, anyways, it doesn’t matter, because it’s not funny if you have to explain it.”
“What do you mean? Why?”
“I don’t know, because you just have to get a joke. It’s not like a logical thing.”
“So then how do you know if a joke is funny?” Max-Ernest asked, extremely confused.
“You just do. Maybe you just don’t have a very good sense of humor,” Cass said helpfully.
“Oh.”
For the first time since she’d met him, Max-Ernest seemed at a loss for words. He looked so sad and defeated that Cass took pity on him.
“Or maybe you just haven’t found the right joke yet,” she added.
“Yeah, maybe.”
She didn’t know he had been trying out a new joke every day for months.
He was silent for another second. But only a second. Then he pointed to the hole in the ground. “So, what are you looking for? Buried treasure? Because buried treasure isn’t just in books, you know. There’s real buried treasure. Like in shipwrecks. Did you know the Titanic was—”
“I’m looking for toxic waste,” Cass said, cutting him off before he could go off on a tangent about the Titanic.
Max-Ernest nodded knowingly. “Yeah, I heard they always put schools over toxic waste dumps. Because the land is really cheap. And then they don’t tell anyone. And then everyone gets sick. You want help? Hey, they have rubber gloves in the science lab. Maybe we should get some. Exposure to toxic waste might give us a skin rash.”
Cass smiled. Maybe Max-Ernest wasn’t so bad after all.

CHAPTER FOUR
A MESSAGE FOR THE WINDS

After her experience with Amber and Veronica, Cass had vowed never to discuss her predictions with anyone again. But she made an exception for Max-Ernest because he seemed so knowledgeable about toxic waste. By the time they returned to the soccer field with the laboratory gloves, Cass had told him all about the dead magician, the dead mouse, and the mysterious sulfur smell.
Max-Ernest scrunched his nose. “It doesn’t smell like rotten eggs to me. Are you sure it’s the same smell?”
He suggested they take out the vial from the Symphony of Smells and compare it to the scent of the soccer field. Cass was slightly annoyed that she hadn’t thought of this herself. Nonetheless, she pulled the wooden box out of her backpack to show him.*
When she opened the small dusty vial and took a whiff she had to agree it didn’t smell much like the soccer field. Perhaps she had jumped to conclusions too quickly.
Max-Ernest put his face to the ground and sniffed. “I think the grass smells more like you-know-what—”
“No, what?”
“You know, number two!” said Max-Ernest, turning red.
Cass rolled her eyes. But when she sniffed the ground herself, she had to agree he was right.
Then she noticed something she hadn’t seen earlier: only three feet from the mouse, there was a pile of fertilizer. What they were smelling was manure!
And there was something else: a box with a picture of a rat inside a red circle with a slash through it. Rat poison. That’s what had killed the mouse. She decided it wasn’t necessary to point this out to Max-Ernest. If he noticed it himself, fine. If he didn’t, well, he didn’t. No sense making him cocky.
Anyway, it didn’t mean there wasn’t toxic waste. Not necessarily.
Meanwhile, Max-Ernest had begun inspecting the Symphony of Smells more closely. “Did you see that the back comes off?” he asked.
Cass hadn’t noticed, but she didn’t say so. She wasn’t sure how many more of Max-Ernest’s discoveries she could take.
Max-Ernest pulled a velvet panel away from the inside of the box’s lid and a bunch of papers slid out onto the ground.
Cass started looking through them. “Beethoven... Mozart... Franz Liszt...Who’s that?”
“Beethoven and Mozart are classical music composers, like from a long time ago,” said Max-Ernest. “Maybe Franz Liszt is, too.”
“I know who Beethoven and Mozart are! I just didn’t know who Liszt was,” said Cass. “Anyway, these look like recipes... See? Symphony Number 9—juniper, chocolate, allspice... Sonata Number 12—mint, rosemary, lavender...I guess they’re like smell versions of the music? Like scratch and sniff?”
“I seriously doubt that. How could there be a smell version of music?” asked Max-Ernest, who, as you know, was always very logical. “Music is made of sound.”
“I know! I don’t mean it’s really music. It’s just a cool idea, like, I don’t know...elves and orcs. Here, look—”
She held up a hand-drawn chart, and started reading aloud. “First violin: ginger. Viola: maple. Cello: vanilla.”
“It’s an orchestra?”
“Right—the Symphony of Smells. Here’s oboe. That’s what I play. It’s licorice.”
“Huh,” said Max-Ernest, turning over the oboelicorice connection in his head. “Why do you think it’s licorice? Do you like licorice?”

Kettle Drum Orange
Mandalin Rose
Saxophone Banana
Xylophone Fish

“Not the black kind. But I don’t really like oboe either.”
“I still don’t see how a smell is supposed to be music,” said Max-Ernest.
“Maybe we should play one,” said Cass, pointing to the sheet music. “Or smell it, I mean.”
Using the chart to locate their “musical instruments,” they tried smelling Beethoven, then Mozart, then a symphony by Franz Liszt. All the music smelled good, except for the Liszt, but eventually even Cass had to admit she couldn’t tell what was especially musical about it.
As they put the music back in the case, a tattered piece of paper fell out and started blowing around in the breeze. Cass caught the paper just before it landed in the manure. It was smudged and wrinkled and singed around the edges, but she could still make out the words written on it.
“A message for the winds,” she read aloud. “In order to spell it, you must first smell it.” Below this note, the names of four instruments had been written, one beneath the other:

Clarinet
Flute
Oboe
Bassoon

“You think it’s some kind of coded message?” Cass asked.
Max-Ernest nodded. “Definitely! You can tell by the instructions. I’ll bet all we have to do is turn the instruments into smells.”
Using the chart, they wrote the name of the matching scent next to each instrument name. And this is what they came up with:

Heliotrope
Echinacea
Licorice
Peanut Butter

Excited, they took the appropriate vials out of the case and smelled them in order. Then they looked at each other expectantly, as if they’d just cast a spell and they were waiting for a ghost or vision to appear.
Nothing happened.
They tried smelling all the scents at once, but that only served to confuse their noses further.
“I guess our noses aren’t strong enough,” said Max-Ernest.
“Or maybe it wasn’t really a coded message after all,” Cass said, putting the paper back into the box.
Max-Ernest pulled the paper back out, staring at it. “You know how it says, ‘first smell it’?” he asked.
“Uh huh...?”
“Well, look at all the first letters: Heliotrope. Echinacea. Licorice. Peanut butter. H—E—L—P. It spells ‘help’!”
“You’re right!” said Cass, impressed despite herself. “But you got one thing wrong.”
“What?”
“It doesn’t spell ‘help,’ it smells ‘help’!”
Max-Ernest laughed. Then it was his turn to be annoyed. Why was it funny when she made a joke?
“Hey, Max-Ernest,” said Cass suddenly.
“Yeah?”
“What if it’s real?”
“What do you mean?”
“The message. You think it’s from the magician? Look at the edge of the paper—it looks like it was in a fire. What if he really wanted help?”
Their eyes locked, the very same chill tingling both their spines.
“Well, it wouldn’t be the best way to get help, would it?” asked Max-Ernest, a little more slowly than usual. “I mean, he could have just called someone—like the police. Or the fire department. But I guess maybe if he didn’t want everyone to know. Like if it was only for a certain person—”
“Whoever it was for, we’re the ones who read it,” Cass pointed out. “That means we have to help him.”
“But he’s dead!”
“Not for sure...”
“That’s true,” said Max-Ernest, considering. “And, even if he is, I guess it might be good to find out—”
“Shh!” Cass put her finger to her lips, stopping him mid-sentence. “Look at Benjamin Blake—”
A pale boy with big staring eyes—Benjamin Blake—stood downwind of them, nose in the air, concentrating hard.
“You think he’s smelling the licorice or the peanut butter?” whispered Cass.
“How could you tell?” Max-Ernest whispered back.
“I don’t know—how could you tell anything about Benjamin Blake?”
Benjamin Blake was a continual source of confusion to Cass, indeed to all his classmates. If they’d included him in their ratings, they might have rated him spaciest or weirdest. But what was weirdest of all was how grown-ups fawned on him.
Benjamin had recently won a big art prize. None of the other students could believe it; judging by the artwork hanging in the school hallway, he couldn’t even draw a straight line. Nonetheless, there was a picture of him in the newspaper, and Mrs. Johnson had made an announcement over the PA as if the prize were some huge historical event. Benjamin got to paint a mural in their town’s City Hall, and he even got to go to Washington, DC, for an awards ceremony. After that, all his teachers treated him like he was a movie star or he’d been elected president.
When Benjamin realized Cass and Max-Ernest were looking at him, he blushed and mumbled something under his breath.
“What did he say?” asked Cass. “Something about a herd of buffalo?”
“I think he said he heard an oboe,” said Max-Ernest.
“You’re joking, right?”
Max-Ernest shook his head “no.”
“That’s weird. He must have been spying when we read the list. I can’t believe someone so spacey could be so nosy.”
For a second, it looked like Benjamin wanted to say something more. But when Cass slammed shut the Symphony of Smells case, he turned and walked away.

CHAPTER FIVE
LYING

As much as they differed from each other, Cass and Max-Ernest had one thing in common: neither was a liar. This was unfortunate. As I’m sure you know from experience, lying is an important skill to have.
It is extremely important, for example, when you want to visit the site of a mysterious disappearance and possible murder, and you don’t think your parents will let you go if they know what you’re up to.
Cass decided to practice by lying about something little.
On Friday nights, her mom always brought home takeout from Thai Village, their neighborhood Thai restaurant. Thai food was Cass’s favorite; she especially liked pad thai noodles (except for the egg part) and beef satay with peanut sauce. That Friday night, as she carefully nibbled on her beef satay, Cass said, “So, I learned in Ms. Stohl’s class today why satay comes on a stick.”
“Cass, I thought we had an agreement about your backpack,” said Cass’s mother, who either hadn’t heard what Cass had said or was ignoring it. “You notice I haven’t said anything about that new hole in the left knee of your jean.”
The agreement was that if Cass stopped wearing her backpack inside the house, Cass’s mother would stop bugging her about the condition of her clothing. Normally, Cass would have pointed out that by saying she wasn’t saying anything about the hole her mother was saying something about it anyway. However, tonight Cass had a lie to tell, so she didn’t argue.
Instead, Cass put her backpack on the floor and tried again. “So you know why satay comes on a stick?”
“No, I don’t,” said her mother. “Why?”
“Because they don’t have plates in Thailand,” said Cass.
This wasn’t true. In fact, they do have plates in Thailand. Moreover, Ms. Stohl hadn’t even discussed Thailand that day.
Although insignificant, it was the first lie Cass had ever told her mother and she could feel her heart pounding in her chest—and her blood rushing to her ears.
Her mother didn’t seem to notice. “Really? They must have some plates,” she said. “What about pad thai?”
“Well, they have bowls. And big plates for serving things,” Cass added, in case her lie was too extreme. “But no regular plates.”
“Well, I guess we better take your plate away then,” her mother joked. “And you can eat off the table. You might like that.”
“Ha-ha. Very funny, Mel,” said Cass, relieved that her mother seemed ready to believe her without asking any more questions. (Cass’s mother was named Melanie, but everybody called her Mel—even Cass when she wanted to make a point or just wanted to sound adult.)
Since her practice lie had gone so well, Cass decided to go ahead and try the real one. She started by telling her mother the truth, because she figured if half of what she said was true then she was only half lying.*
“I have to go over to Max-Ernest’s house tomorrow,” she said. “He’s this guy from school. You never heard me talk about him before because he’s in Mr. Golding’s, not Ms. Stohl’s. Also he’s kind of hyper.”
That much was true. Then came the lying part. “We have to do this science project,” she said quickly. “It’s like one of those make your own volcano experiments, but you have to build the mountain part first. Everybody is matched up with somebody from the other class and we’re supposed to collaborate on it.”
Cass could tell her mother was only half listening. “Tomorrow?” she asked.
“It’s due on Monday.”
“Oh, well, if you’re going to be gone, maybe I’ll go to yoga. I can take you on the way.”
“He lives really close. I can walk.”
“You don’t have to. I can take you.”
The conversation wasn’t going the way it was supposed to go. If her mother took her, her mother would want to meet Max-Ernest’s parents and discuss what their kids were going to do for the day. Cass’s plan would be foiled.
“Cass, your ears are turning red—are you upset about something?”
“No, well, I don’t know—”
It was time to take out what are called “the big guns”—those special arguments you hold in reserve for emergencies. Cass screwed up her nerve and began:
“It’s just—remember you said you were going to stop being so overprotective? You said it was only because you felt bad that you had to work so much of the time, and you couldn’t always be there yourself, and that was why you wanted people to be watching me all the time, but you agreed it wasn’t fair that I should feel like I was in jail just because you were working? And now it’s like I’m a prisoner again! And it’s not even when you’re working....Besides, I’ll take Sebastian and he’ll protect me. I already asked Larry and Wayne and they said I could have him on Saturday.”
“That blind old dog? Who’s going to protect him?”
“He can see—he just does it with his nose. He’s a Seeing-Nose Dog, remember?”
“OK, OK, if you really want to walk you can walk. Just...be careful, okay? No disasters!”
And that was that. Cass felt a twinge of guilt at deceiving her mother and employing emotional black-mail to boot, but she managed to stifle it quickly. All in all, her first experience with lying had gone pretty smoothly—even if her ears had almost given her away.
For Max-Ernest, lying proved more difficult. Although the part that his parents didn’t believe happened to be the truth.
“You have a new friend?” his mother asked.
“Since when do girls talk to you?” asked his father.
They weren’t trying to be as mean as they sounded. It was just that they were so surprised; Max-Ernest had never had a friend before.
The only thing that convinced them the situation had changed was the appearance of Cass herself.
When she arrived on Saturday morning with Sebastian, Cass immediately noticed something strange about Max-Ernest’s house. Indeed, it would be hard not to notice, even from a distance. The house was split down the middle. Half the house was white and geometric-looking; a real estate agent like Gloria Fortune would say it had a “sleek and modern” design. The other half was dark and wooden; Gloria would probably describe it as “warm and rustic.” The modern side was Max-Ernest’s mother’s side. The woodsy side was his father’s.
When the door opened for her, Cass saw that the split personality continued on the inside. Neither parent was supposed to cross into the other parent’s side of the house—something Cass figured out when she tried to shake Max-Ernest’s father’s hand while she was standing in Max-Ernest’s mother’s half of the entry hall. Cass almost fell over because she was expecting him to reach out his hand and he didn’t.
“Hello, Cass, I’ve heard so much about you,” he said, smiling, but not moving from his side of the entry.
“Cass, welcome! Max-Ernest has told me so much about you,” said Max-Ernest’s mother, as if his father hadn’t just said the same thing.
For her, apparently, Max-Ernest’s father did not exist. And vice versa. It was an odd arrangement, to say the least.

When Cass commented that she’d never seen a house like theirs before, Max-Ernest explained that although his parents were divorced, they believed every child should be raised with two parents in the house. In fact, it was the only thing his parents agreed on. As a result, they lived together—but they kept every aspect of their lives separate, including the décor of their home.
“Oh, well, I only have one parent—my mom,” said Cass. “So our house only has one style.” She was about to add that she liked it just fine that way, but then she decided against it; she didn’t want to pick a fight when she and Max-Ernest were about to embark on an important secret mission.
Despite their strangeness, Cass found Max-Ernest-’s parents quite nice. They were obviously very excited to meet their son’s first-ever friend and they treated her like visiting royalty. They let her take Sebastian inside, each of them immediately giving him a bowl of water (much to the confusion of the blind dog, who was used to being given only one bowl of water at a time). And they didn’t even make a fuss when Cass refused to take off her backpack.
“I’m a survivalist,” Cass explained. “I have to keep it on at all times.”
“Terrific,” said Max-Ernest’s mother. “It’s important to be prepared for emergencies.”
“That’s great,” said Max-Ernest’s father. “Emergency preparation is important.”
Each parent insisted on making breakfast for Cass: Max-Ernest’s father offered pancakes. Then his mother offered waffles. Then each offered what the other had offered. Cass had already eaten, but she knew it would be rude not to accept anything. So she asked for toast, thinking that would be fastest. In a flash, Max-Ernest’s mother handed her a piece of toasted French bread with plenty of butter. Almost as quickly, Max-Ernest’s father gave her a piece of toasted whole wheat bread with raspberry preserves.
Before Cass could finish a single piece of toast, let alone both pieces, Max-Ernest said they had to go. Cass was ready with a story about how they were going to the park to collect materials for their science project, but Max-Ernest’s parents were so thrilled that he had a friend that it didn’t even occur to them to ask where the kids were going.
“What happened to your dad?” asked Max-Ernest, after the door had closed behind them.
“What do you mean? Who says something happened?” asked Cass, walking quickly away from Max-Ernest’s house.
“Well, you said you only had a mom.”
“Yeah, so?”
“So you never had a dad?”
Cass hesitated, avoiding Max-Ernest’s eyes.
“Well, actually, I did,” she said after a moment. “He died when I was three—he was electrocuted.”
“Electrocuted? Wow!” said Max-Ernest, clearly very impressed. “Like in an electric chair? Did he kill someone?”
“No! It was from lightning, dummy. He was camping. There was a storm. And he was tying his food to a tree branch—you know, so bears couldn’t get it?—and then suddenly a lightning bolt hit the tree.”
“Oh. I guess that was bad luck, huh?”
“Yeah, pretty much. Anyway, it’s kind of a secret. I mean, not a secret secret. Just—I don’t like to talk about it.”
“Why? If he didn’t kill anybody or anything, what’s the big deal?”
“I just don’t like people feeling sorry for me and stuff. I mean, I hardly even remember him.”
“Okay, I won’t talk about it then. But—”
“No buts. We have to call to find out where the magician’s house is. C’mon—”
Without saying anything more, she headed toward the phone booth down the road, Sebastian at her heels and Max-Ernest straggling behind.

CHAPTER SIX
The Magician's House

A magician’s house is impossible to find. At least that is what Cass was beginning to think.
“Are you sure this is the right street?” she asked.
“How could I be sure? I’ve never been here before,” Max-Ernest pointed out.
“Do you think it’s the right street then?”
“Well, the sign said—”
Wait! Stop! Hold on!
I just realized I was about to reveal the name of the magician’s street. That would have been a serious mistake. It’s one thing for Cass and Max-Ernest to make the ill-fated journey themselves; I could never live with myself if you placed yourself in the same danger they did.
Let me begin again. This time, I promise to pay attention:
A magician’s house is impossible to find. At least that is what Cass was beginning to think.
“Are you sure this is the right street?” she asked.
“How could I be sure? I’ve never been here before,” Max-Ernest pointed out.
“Do you think it’s the right street then?”
(Now watch this: I’ve come up with a very novel way of hiding the street name. I’m going to leave it blank.)
“Well, the sign said ____ Road,” Max-Ernest continued. “And the address that real estate lady gave us was on ____ Road. But maybe she guessed we weren’t really grown-ups when we called, and she gave us the wrong street on purpose. Or maybe somebody put the wrong street sign up. Or maybe there are two ____ Roads. Or maybe the magician moved. Before he was dead, I mean. And for some reason, they still had his old address. And they were trying to sell the wrong house. But then, I guess this would still be the right street for that house—”
“Forget it! Let’s just go a little farther.”
“How far is a lit—”
“Aargh! Why do I even bother talking to you?”
Cass was becoming very impatient with Max-Ernest’s strictly logical way of thinking. He reminded her of the artificial intelligence program she had tried at school; he only gave you the answer you wanted if you asked the right way. The difference was: you could turn off the artificial intelligence program. Turning off Max-Ernest was not an option.
They had been walking along a winding street of the sort that creeps upward without you quite realizing it, and by now they were high up on a heavily wooded hill. They hadn’t passed any houses for about forty minutes, and none were visible ahead.
Even Sebastian seemed tired. Like most elderly bassets, he had a bad back, and it was a long trip for him. He kept barking in a way that sounded an awful lot like the words “When are we going to get there?”
Just when Cass was on the verge of giving up, Sebastian started tugging on his leash.
“I think he smells something. Maybe the house is around that curve,” Cass said. “If it’s not, we’ll turn around.”
“You mean this curve or that—?”
She gave Max-Ernest a warning look and he stopped in the middle of his question.
As soon as they rounded the curve that Cass had indicated they ran into a big FOR SALE sign attached to a roadblock on the side of the street. The sign was bright yellow and decorated with balloons so you couldn’t miss it if you tried. Under the words there was a picture of Gloria smiling toothily. A big arrow pointed to a pathway that otherwise would not have been visible, it was so overgrown.

GLORIA 
FORTUNE 
Realty

After a short but thorny walk, they reached a clearing that must have served for the magician as a front yard. Cass stared. Max-Ernest stared. (Sebastian would have stared, too, but he was blind.) They couldn’t believe they were standing in front of the right house. Was this what a “quirky and offbeat house looked like? It looked so normal. Nothing about the house suggested a magician might have lived there. It was just a plain white cottage with black shutters. The only thing that distinguished the magician’s house from any other was that it was very, very small; it looked like it had all of one room.
They tried peeking in the windows but the curtains were closed. Screwing up her courage, Cass knocked on the door.
Nobody answered.
“We’re going to have to break in,” she said, doing her best to sound as if she did this kind of thing all the time.
“Really?” asked Max-Ernest, alarmed. He hadn’t considered the possibility of a break-in.
“How else are we going to get inside?” asked Cass, taking a screwdriver out of her backpack. “Anyway, it’s not really breaking in because we’re helping the magician, and it’s his house.”
“I’m not sure that makes any sense—”
“C’mon. Let’s see if we can get any of these windows open.”
Trying not to let him see how nervous she was, Cass started pulling on the windows, looking for the loosest one.
Max-Ernest hesitated at the door. On a whim, he tried the doorknob. It turned.
“Hey, it’s open!” he said.
“Well, why didn’t you say so?” asked Cass, relieved but also a little frustrated that she wouldn’t have the chance to practice her window-prying technique.
As soon as they stepped inside, they realized the house wasn’t quite as normal as it had seemed. Instead of a living room, or even an entry hall, they were standing in a tiny, wood-paneled room about the size and shape of a coat closet. There were no windows, or even any doors, other than the one they had come through.
“You think there’s some kind of secret door?” asked Cass, examining the wood paneling. There didn’t seem to be any hidden knobs or hinges.
“It doesn’t look like it,” said Max-Ernest. “Hey—”
Without warning, a breeze had shut the door behind them. And now another door was sliding shut in front of it. They were trapped.
“Now what?” said Max-Ernest.
“I don’t know, I’ve never been stuck like this,” Cass reluctantly admitted.
Then she noticed the two buttons sticking out of a panel in the corner of the room. “Look, it’s an elevator!”
Cass pressed one button, then the other. Nothing happened. “How do you think we start it?” she asked.
Max-Ernest pointed to a small sign above a speaker. It said, What’s the magic word?
“Abracadabra!” said Cass.
Nothing happened.
“Open sesame!” said Max-Ernest.
Nothing happened.
“Hocus pocus!” said Cass.
Nothing happened.
“Simon says, go down!” said Max-Ernest.
Nothing happened.
“Wait, I’ve got it,” said Cass. “I know the magic word.” She looked directly at the speaker and very carefully pronounced the word “Please.”
As if it heard her, the elevator groaned, and started to descend. Silently, Cass thanked Mrs. Johnson for being such a stickler.
“I hate manners,” said Max-Ernest.
“I think it’s supposed to be funny,” said Cass. “You know like people always say ‘What’s the magic word?’ But this time it’s really magic.”
“It’s not really magic, it’s electronic. It’s voice-activated.”
“I know! It’s just a joke.”
“Oh, right. Ha!” said Max-Ernest, not really getting it.
When they got out of the elevator they found themselves in a typical, average, everyday sort of house. It had a living room and a dining room. It had a bedroom and a bathroom. It had a laundry room and a kitchen. It had all the things most houses have. With one small but critical difference: the magician’s house was entirely underground.
It was also empty.
“Gloria must have gotten rid of everything. She’s that real estate agent,” whispered Cass.
“Why are you whispering?” whispered Max-Ernest.
“I don’t know....Hello? Anyone here?” Cass asked, still not very loud. No answer. She repeated her question, forcing herself to shout. But all she got in response was a louder echo.
There wasn’t a single book or picture or piece of furniture or anything personal of any sort left in the house. Nonetheless, as they walked around, Cass could feel the personality of the dead magician. The floorboards were worn in the places he had walked over and over. The closets showed his handprints. And the wood-paneled walls seemed to have a special sheen where his shoulders had rubbed against them.
“I think he was a nice man,” said Cass.
“How can you tell?” asked Max-Ernest.
“I just can.”
“That doesn’t make any sense.”
The only place that didn’t show any sign of the magician was the kitchen, where everything was either brand-new or newly painted. You would never know that anyone had used the kitchen before, let alone that there had been a fire. Sebastian, however, seemed to find the kitchen particularly interesting. He kept raising his head and sniffing, as if the room was haunted by aromas of the past.
Cass tried to sniff in the same direction. “I think I smell it—do you?”
“What? The paint?” asked Max-Ernest.
“The sulfur smell!”
“Oh, yeah. Maybe. Well, not really. But my nose is kind of stuffy. I have a deviated septum.”
“Is there anything you don’t have?” asked Cass sarcastically. “C’mon. There’s nothing in here. Maybe there’s a clue somewhere else in the house.”
“What kind of clue are we looking for again?”
“I’ll know it when I see it.”
As they reentered the living room, the dog broke loose from Cass’s grip and lumbered over to a corner bookshelf.
“What’s he growling at?” Max-Ernest asked nervously.
“Probably just a bug.”
“You think it’s one of those magic bookcases and there’s a secret room behind it?”
“Those are just in movies,” said Cass confidently.
They looked under the shelf but they couldn’t see anything.
When they stood up, Cass looked curiously at Max-Ernest. He was bouncing on his feet and clenching his hands.
“I think I...I’ve got to go to the bathroom,” he stammered.
“Well, then go.”
“You think it’s okay?”
“Yeah, why not? You know, if there’s a nuclear war and we’re all living in an underground bunker, you can’t be so embarrassed about it. Everybody’s got to go sometimes.”
Cass waited as Max-Ernest shut himself into the bathroom. She tried not to listen, but every sound in the magician’s house was magnified. Besides, boys always peed loudly.
Finally, she heard the toilet flush.
Then she heard two screams. One sounded like Max-Ernest. The other sounded like no one—no one human, that is—at all.

CHAPTER SEVEN
A Striking Couple

For about a second and a half, Cass stood frozen. Then she ran.
When she reached the bathroom, the door was opening and a scrawny old cat darted out. (It was the cat, Cass realized with relief, who was the source of that second scream.)
Max-Ernest was standing by the toilet, panting and pointing. Next to him, the wall had opened up, revealing a large hidden room.
“It just...happened when I flushed,” he said. “There was some kind of hidden door.”
Determined not to let herself be scared by another cat or any other pet, Cass boldly stepped into the opening. Max-Ernest followed cautiously.
The hidden room was dominated by a big wooden desk and was crammed top to bottom with the magician’s things.
“His workroom!” said Cass, who was instantly reminded of her grandfathers’ antiques store and therefore felt very comfortable. “I guess Gloria doesn’t know about it—that’s why there’s still so much stuff. There’s got to be something for us in here.”
Max-Ernest, who was still not recovered from the shock, pointed to the empty bowl of cat food and not-so-empty litter box. “You think that cat’s been in here since the magician died?”
Cass nodded. “Okay, you start at one end. I’ll start at the other.”
“So, then, you have to admit, I was right, there was a secret room. How about that?”
Cass didn’t answer. She just started combing through boxes.
“It stinks,” Max-Ernest grumbled. But he started looking around all the same.
They were half amazed and half disappointed by what they found. There were none of the objects you usually see in a magician’s workroom: no magic wands, no boxes for sawing women in half, no top hats for hiding rabbits, no bits of trickery or fakery of any kind.
Instead, there were the kinds of things you see more often in the study of a mad professor: there was a broken brass scale and an enormous magnifying glass covered with dust; there was a microscope holding an empty slide, a telescope pointed at a spot in the ceiling, and even a stethoscope draped over the desk chair; there was a taxidermy ferret, a collection of rocks and crystals, all of which had some kind of incandescent, luminescent, or opalescent quality, and hundreds of butterflies pinned to cardboard with their wings frozen in a last attempt at flight; and there were books and papers everywhere.
But there was nothing magical. Or sulfurous. Or in any way lethal.
Sebastian, meanwhile, was sniffing around a drawer underneath the magician’s desk. Following his lead, Cass opened the drawer and pulled out a large, leather-bound notebook.
“What’s that?” asked Max-Ernest.
Cass put her finger to her lips. Sebastian had moved away from the desk toward the outside wall and was twitching nervously—a sure sign of danger.
The sound of the elevator moving echoed through the house.
Max-Ernest opened his mouth to say something but Cass immediately clamped her hand over his mouth and held tight. He looked furious but he couldn’t remove her hand no matter how hard he tried; she was too strong.
Then they heard the elevator door open and a voice—unmistakably Gloria’s—ring out from it. She was so loud and shrill they could hear every word.
“Newlyweds, you say? How wonderful! You make such a striking couple! You know, I do have some aboveground homes to show that might be more to your taste....Oh, you’ve always wanted an underground house? Marvelous!”
Cass pointed with her free hand to a small grate that looked out into the corner of the library where Sebastian had been growling earlier. (It must have been the cat that made him growl.) She and Max-Ernest watched through the grate as Gloria stepped out of the elevator and walked toward them.
Thankfully, Sebastian remained quiet. It was as though he knew they didn’t want to be found.
“You know I had a feeling about this house,” Gloria continued, “that the right couple would just fall in love with it. So romantic, isn’t it, Dr....?”
“Dr. L,” said a deep voice with one of those elusive accents you can’t quite identify no matter how hard you try.
“Oh, L what?” asked Gloria.
“Just L,” he responded in the smug tone of someone who’s just won an argument.
“I see,” said Gloria, who clearly did not see at all. “And that makes you Mrs....”
“It’s Ms. Mauvais,” answered a woman, evidently Ms. Mauvais, her voice tinkling in a way that should have sounded light and musical but instead sounded icy and unpleasant.
“Oh, so then you didn’t take your husband’s name, or rather, I mean his initial?”
“Apparently not,” said Ms. Mauvais, as she and Dr. L finally came into view towering above the short real estate agent.
Cass pressed her face against the grate to get a better look at these newlywed house-hunters.
Gloria was not exaggerating when she said they made a “striking couple.”
Dr. L was tall and tan and had the whitest teeth Cass had ever seen. He wore a gray suit with a silver tie, and he had silver hair that looked like it had been blowing in a wind; and yet his hair never moved. Despite the color of his hair, he didn’t have any wrinkles on his face. He was so handsome that he seemed far away even when he was close.
If anything, Ms. Mauvais was even more dazzling, and not just because she was dripping with gold jewelry. She was almost as tall as Dr. L and she had a teeny-tiny waist—like a Barbie doll brought to life. She had blond Barbie hair that swooped up from her forehead forming a perfect golden helmet, not a strand out of place. She had blue Barbie eyes that were big and round and sparkling and never seemed to blink. Her skin, too, was smooth and flawless like a doll’s. No part of her face ever moved, even when she spoke.
It was as if she and Dr. L had taken photographs of themselves at just the perfect moments when they looked their absolute best, and then they had cast a spell so that they would look like their photographs forever.
One other thing was strange about them: they both wore gloves on their hands. Even though the day was really warm.
They were terrifying. At least to Cass.
Max-Ernest, on the other hand, was transfixed. “That’s the prettiest woman I’ve ever seen,” he whispered when Cass finally released her hand.
“Are you crazy?” Cass whispered back. “She looks like a zombie. They both do.”
Ms. Mauvais was looking toward them, something like a quizzical expression on her face. For a second, they thought she’d heard them, but perhaps this was how she always looked. Then she turned back toward Gloria.
“I see you’ve cleared out all of the previous occupant’s belongings,” said Ms. Mauvais. “A magician, did you say he was?”
“Yes, well, no, I don’t think I mentioned it. Or rather I must have!” Gloria laughed. “How else would you know?”
“How else, indeed,” said Ms. Mauvais, while surreptitiously eyeing Dr. L. “He must have had many interesting things. Could you tell much about the magician from his belongings?”
“Oh, no,” said Gloria. “It was just a lot of junk....Wouldn’t you like to see the other rooms?”
“So where is this ‘junk’ now?” Ms. Mauvais persisted, ignoring Gloria’s suggestion.
“Oh, I gave it all away.”
“I see. And whom did you give it to?” continued Ms. Mauvais, as casually as if she were asking about the weather.
When she heard this last question, Cass found herself shaking her head “no,” silently willing Gloria not to answer. For some reason—maybe it was the way Sebastian was reacting to them, or was it just the sound of their voices?—she didn’t think Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais were really house-hunting. She wasn’t even sure they were newlyweds at all. What she was sure of was that she didn’t want them ever to go anywhere near her grandfathers’ antiques store.
“Oh, I can’t remember. I think I threw it all away,” said Gloria, perhaps thinking the same thing.
Cass breathed a sigh of relief.
Dr. L took a step toward Gloria. “So this magician of yours, he didn’t leave any papers or files that would tell us something about him?”
Gloria shook her head nervously and took a step backward. “No, nothing like that.”
Dr. L looked piercingly at her, like a prosecutor interrogating a witness. “A leather notebook perhaps? Think hard.”
When Max-Ernest heard this, he coughed and flung back his head, knocking over a pile of boxes.
It’s hard to say what happened in the commotion that followed. This much Cass would remember later: when she and Max-Ernest and Sebastian exited the bathroom, she looked directly at Dr. L and Ms Mauvais and she said, “I think the notebook you’re looking for is in there.”
As the two stunned grown-ups scrambled into the bathroom, Cass shut the door on them and headed toward the elevator. Gloria stared at them in surprise.
“What are you kids doing here?!” she asked sharply. “You’re trespassing. This is private prop-erty....Hey, I know you,” she added, looking at Cass. “You’re that pesky little girl from Larry and Wayne’s.”
“Run!” shouted Cass, pushing Sebastian toward the open elevator.
“Come back here right now!” shouted Gloria. “And what’s that in your hand?!”
“Um, up!” Cass said, as soon as they were inside the elevator.
Nothing happened.
“I mean, please!” The elevator started to move.
“Stop! Thief!” shouted Gloria, waddling up to the elevator, but she was too late.
As for Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais, they managed to get out of the magician’s study just in time to see the elevator closing on Cass and Max-Ernest.
And to see Cass clutching the magician’s notebook tight in her hand.

CHAPTER EIGHT
THE TITLE OF THIS CHAPTER IS SO ALARMING I'VE DECIDED NOT TO INCLUDE IT.

Sebastian almost gave them away by growling at the magician’s cat, who happened to be skulking nearby. But then the cat bolted. Which caused Ms. Mauvais to jump back in fright. Which caused Dr. L to laugh at her. (His laugh was as strangely accented as his voice.) Which caused Ms. Mauvais to call him nasty names. Which caused them both to turn away from the bushes.
In the end, suffice it to say, our heroes acted very bravely, or at least very patiently, and they outwaited their pursuers. I am also happy to report that neither Cass nor Max-Ernest ever considered giving up the notebook—although neither could have said exactly why if you’d asked them.
When they reached Max-Ernest’s house, his parents were naturally distressed to see their son’s clothes torn and soiled, not to mention the scratches all over his arms and legs. But they were so unused to the situation that they didn’t know how to react.
“Is this how kids always look after they go out?” asked his mother.
“Kids will be kids, er, won’t they, kids?” asked his father.
“Yes, Mom. That’s right, Dad,” said Max-Ernest, making sure to answer each parent separately.
Cass left Sebastian with his two bowls of water, then followed Max-Ernest upstairs. As soon as Max-Ernest closed his bedroom door—his room was carefully positioned so that it was divided equally between each parent’s half of the house—Cass sat down on the floor and pulled the notebook out of her backpack. “What do you think could be in here that they want so badly?”
“Paper? That’s what’s usually in a notebook,” Max-Ernest pointed out.
Cass rolled her eyes. “Um, I think it’s probably something the magician wrote. Duh.”
She opened the notebook on the floor and flipped through the pages so they both could see what was inside.
“That’s all?” said Max-Ernest.
Cass shrugged. She had to agree it was a bit of a letdown. All the pages were blank, except the first.
Cass read the lines scrawled across it:

Please be SILENT and LISTEN.
I am the SCHOOLMASTER
and you are in THE CLASSROOM.
Just like ELEVEN PLUS TWO equals
TWELVE PLUS ONE,
And even a FUNERAL can be REAL FUN,
You will find my DICTIONARY
is quite INDICATORY.
If you want to read my story, just look...
THEN UNREAD.

Cass scrunched up her face. “How do you ‘unread’ a story?”
“Uh, I think...I don’t know,” Max-Ernest admitted. “I guess it means ‘not read’? Or maybe ‘forget what you read’?”
“The book is blank. We can’t read it anyway.”
“How do you know? Maybe it’s just hidden somewhere. Or maybe it’s in invisible ink. Or maybe the poem is really another secret code, and if we crack it, it will tell us where the story is.”
Cass thought about this for a second. “Well, I don’t think it’s a very good poem, if it’s even a poem. But maybe you’re right about the code part. With all that school stuff and the numbers, do you think maybe we’re supposed to do math?”
“Too easy,” Max-Ernest said confidently. “Everyone knows eleven plus two equals twelve plus one. The whole point of a secret code is that it’s hard to figure out.”
“I know what a secret code is! What about the funeral? Why’s he saying a funeral can be fun?” Cass asked, studying the notebook. “That’s kind of weird. Or do you think it’s ’cause ‘fun’ rhymes with ‘one’?”
“That’s the only rhyme. There would be more if that was the reason.”
Cass handed him the notebook, annoyed.
“You look at it then. What makes you the secret code expert anyway? How many have you figured out?”
“You mean like real secret codes?”
Cass nodded.
“You mean like besides the one in the Symphony of Smells?”
Cass nodded.
“Um, well, none,” admitted Max-Ernest. “But I’ve read about a lot of them.”
“So you don’t really know anything about secret codes then,” declared Cass, who believed you had to experience things to know about them.
She looked over at Max-Ernest to see if he would contradict her but he wasn’t paying attention to her anymore. He was staring at the notebook.
“It’s so obvious!” he said. “I can’t believe I didn’t see it before.”
“What?”
“Look how all the capitalized words look the same. LISTEN and SILENT...SCHOOLMASTER and THE CLASSROOM...DICTIONARY and INDICATORY...”
“Yeah...?”
“They’re anagrams!”
“Right,” said Cass nodding. Then she asked, “What’s an anagram?”
“It’s when two words have all the same letters but in a different order. Then when one word spells another one backward it’s a kind of mirror writing called a palindr—”
Cass cut him off before he could start another lecture. “Okay, I get it. They’re all anagrams.”
“Even the numbers,” Max-Ernest continued. “ELEVEN PLUS TWO is like TWELVE PLUS ONE. Only two capitalized words don’t have an anagram—”
“THEN UNREAD!” finished Cass, growing excited. “We have to figure out an anagram for THEN UNREAD.”
Max-Ernest found a piece of paper and they started trying different letter combinations (Cass had done this before with her grandfathers when they played Boggle and Scrabble):

THE DEAR NUN
RAN THE DUNE
EAT RUDE NNH
RED NUT HE NA
TREE HAD NUN

And so on. Most combinations were total gibberish. And none worked when you tried to put them into the magician’s sentence. They thought they might have it with HUNT A DEER or HEAT UNDER, but then they realized both combinations were missing an N. All the while, Max-Ernest kept talking to himself.
“Can’t you keep you mouth closed for even a second?” said Cass.
“But I think I’ve got it,” said Max-Ernest, trying to talk through his teeth.
“What?”
“It’s UNDERNEATH!” exclaimed Max-Ernest, giving up on keeping his mouth closed because he was much too excited. “If you want to read my book, just look UNDERNEATH. How ’bout that?”
Cass nodded. “Yeah, that must be it! Like underneath the ground, I guess. Do you think he buried it somewhere?”
They didn’t have any time to discuss the matter further because Cass’s mother had arrived to take Cass and Sebastian home. Despite having to leave Max-Ernest’s just after they decoded the magician’s secret message, Cass was very glad to see her mom. It had been a long and scary day and a hug had rarely felt so good. But there was sadness in the hug, too. More than anything, Cass wanted to tell her mother everything that had happened at the magician’s house. But she couldn’t.
There were two good reasons not to tell:

1. She had lied about her plans for the day and her mother would be angry and possibly ground her.
2. Her mother would worry about her safety and wouldn’t let her investigate further, grounded or not.

As you might have guessed, Cass’s mother wasn’t as easy to put off as Max-Ernest’s parents when it came to the condition of her child’s clothing. But Cass told a story about chasing the blind dog through the park that was so long and involved that her mother gave up trying to understand and just said she was glad Cass was OK and the state of her clothing wasn’t important.
Cass knew her mother well enough to know when something was on her mind. Sure enough, her mother didn’t get out of the car when they got home. Instead, she turned and looked at Cass and said she had something to tell her.
At first, Cass thought her mother was going to tell her something really terrible, like that she was getting married or dying of some rare fungus. How could she have not seen this coming? She, Cassandra, the one who predicted everything! And her mom had fallen in love and she hadn’t even known?
As it turned out, the news wasn’t so terrible. Her mother was going away on a business trip to Hawaii. The insurance company she worked for was sending her to a conference on “risk assessment” (which sounded kind of interesting) in Honolulu; and she was going to stay an extra couple days so she could spend a little “downtime” (which sounded boring) on the beach. Grandpa Larry and Grandpa Wayne had agreed to let Cass stay with them while her mother was away.
Cass couldn’t have been more surprised if her mother had announced she was flying to the moon. She hardly ever traveled—and she never traveled without Cass.
No doubt, her mother was interested in traveling; you could even say it was a hobby of sorts. She was famous for her collection of travel guides, and her friends always asked for her help planning their trips. From the best beaches in Costa Rica to the coziest cabins in Colorado, no matter where you were going Cass’s mother had a book on the subject. She had guides to trekking in Nepal even though she’d never gone on a single hike in her life, and maps for helicopter skiing in Canada even though she was afraid of flying and she didn’t like the snow.
To Cass, nothing was more torturous than hearing about all these fabulous places she would never get to see. To her mother, books were better than travel. “Who needs to go somewhere when you can read about it,” her mother liked to say. “You don’t even have to wait in line at the airport!”
Now, finally, her mother had decided to take a vacation—or at least to add a vacation onto a work trip. And Cass wasn’t invited?
“I know it doesn’t seem fair,” her mother said, “but it’s just not practical. Next time, you’ll come—I promise.”
Once she got over the shock, Cass assured her mother that the Hawaiian work-plus-vacation trip was no problem. “I’ll be okay,” she said. “Anyways, I like staying with Grandpa Larry and Grandpa Wayne. Because they let me do whatever I want. Just kidding!”
“Thank you for being so mature and understanding,” said her mother, hugging Cass for the third time in as many minutes.
Her mother might not have been so grateful had she known what Cass was thinking while they were hugging. The reason Cass was being so mature and understanding was that she had come to the conclusion that the timing of her mother’s trip was perfect.
In reality, she hadn’t been kidding when she said her grandfathers let her do whatever she wanted. With her mother gone, it would be much easier to go back to the magician’s house and start digging. And then to solve the mystery of his death. And then to save the rest of the world from suffering the same fate. And then to have everybody know what a hero she was and that her predictions were real and that she wasn’t just crying wolf.

CHAPTER NINE
a tight Leash

Unfortunately, Cass’s mother seemed to think that her absence meant Cass should have less freedom rather than more.
A week after she broke the news about her trip, even though she was late for the airport, her mother spent twenty minutes listing all the things Cass wasn’t allowed to do while she was gone. Including sliding down the fire pole and riding in the back of Wayne’s pickup truck.
Cass’s mother pushed a credit card into Cass’s hand. “For emergencies,” she said. “But there better not be any!” Then she turned toward Cass’s substitute grandfathers (and now substitute guardians). “Remember, she’s not as adult as she seems—she’s still our little girl.”
Which was just about the most infuriating thing her mother could say.
“Don’t worry—we’ll keep her on a tight leash,” said Grandpa Larry.
Which made Cass even madder.
“Yeah, Sebastian has a few extras,” joked Grandpa Wayne.
Which was so unfunny it wasn’t funny.
Apparently, keeping Cass on a tight leash meant dragging her around with them wherever they went. As soon as her mother left, Grandpa Larry and Grandpa Wayne started filling all her out-of-school time with trips to flea markets and swap meets and garage sales and auto parts junkyards. They said they were “just checking out the competition,” but Cass noticed they never left anywhere empty-handed. After two days with them, Cass never wanted to see another old or broken thing for the rest of her life.
Still, the field trips were a relief compared to the time she spent in the shop. Whenever she was at the fire station, Cass worried that Gloria might show up and tell her grandfathers about seeing Cass at the magician’s house. What had Gloria called her—a trespasser and a thief? Hearing those words would be enough to get her grandfathers to call her mother. And to get her mother to cancel the rest of her trip. And to get Cass in pretty much the biggest trouble she’d ever been in.
Unable to bear the suspense any longer, Cass asked her grandfathers if they’d heard anything from Gloria.
“Oh, don’t you worry, she always comes back,” said Grandpa Wayne, completely misinterpreting Cass’s concern. “And I’m sure she’ll have plenty of loot! Maybe she’ll even have a new adding machine for us! Wouldn’t that be cool?”
Cass wasn’t sure what could be less cool than a new adding machine unless it was the way Grandpa Wayne said the word “cool.” In any case, his answer did not reassure her.
But Gloria stayed away that day. And the next. And the next. Gradually, Cass’s anxiety about Gloria reappearing was replaced by a new anxiety: an anxiety about Gloria disappearing. What if Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais had done something to her? Was that why Gloria hadn’t dropped by the shop? The more Cass thought about it, the more certain Cass became that Gloria had met some terrible fate. The magician’s house was so remote, Gloria’s body might rot there for years and nobody would know.
When the next Saturday arrived, Cass’s grandfathers announced that it was time for them to take their once-a-year inventory. Each and every single thing in the store had to be counted. Cass could only imagine what this would be like. The store was so disorganized that it would take an entire year to catalog its contents—and then it would be time for the next year’s inventory! She couldn’t ask for a better opportunity to return to the magician’s house and resume her investigation.
As if she were just trying to be helpful, she offered to take Sebastian for a walk while her grandfathers were working. They accepted on condition that she not stay away too long. Cass knew they’d lose track of time as soon as they got started on the inventory so she readily agreed. She even promised to clean up after the dog. (Being blind, Sebastian had a tendency to go about his “business” in inconvenient places.)
There was one thing she had to do before she left: in case her grandfathers were more efficient about taking inventory than she imagined, Cass stealthily removed the Symphony of Smells from her backpack and slipped it back onto the shelf where Grandpa Larry had last stored it. Probably, they wouldn’t look, but it was better to be careful. Besides, her backpack was heavy enough as it was. The magician’s notebook, of course, she kept. No way was she leaving that.
Then she said a loud good-bye and headed out with Sebastian.
The morning was sunny and windy, which was one of Cass’s favorite weather combinations, and she was happy and excited about the day ahead of her. (She also liked it when the weather was sunny and rainy at the same time, which is when you’re most likely to see a rainbow. However, mud would have made it difficult to dig, so it was a good thing it wasn’t raining.) Mentally, Cass went over her list of supplies—she took her own inventory, so to speak—until she was satisfied she had everything she needed, from a collapsible shovel to extra plastic bags for picking up dog poop. In no time at all, Cass felt confident, she and Max-Ernest would find whatever it was the magician had buried in the ground. She only hoped they didn’t find the magician—or Gloria—buried along with it!
When she reached Max-Ernest’s house, Cass hit a snag.
Max-Ernest was standing in the driveway, flipping a coin in the air. On one side of him, his mother sat in her car. On the other side of him, his father sat in his car.
“Okay, heads I go with Mom, tails I go with Dad,” he was saying as Cass walked up to him. (This was the way Max-Ernest made many decisions concerning his parents. So he didn’t have to pick a favorite.)
The coin fell to the ground before he could grab it.
“Oh, darn! You made me mess up,” he said to Cass.
“Well, that’s okay because you’re not going with either of your parents. You’re going with me,” said Cass. “We’re going back to the magician’s house,” she added in a whisper.
“We can’t. I’m going to a new doctor,” Max-Ernest whispered back.
“Tell them it’s important.”
“But he thinks he knows what my condition is. I have to go!”
“Well, then I’ll just have to go the magician’s house without you,” said Cass, very displeased with this turn of events.
“You’d go without me?” asked Max-Ernest in alarm.
“Don’t worry, I know how to handle myself,” said Cass, which was a line she had once heard in a movie.
“That’s not what I meant,” said Max-Ernest. “I thought we were partners. You said we were collaborating.”
Cass immediately bristled at this suggestion. “I never said that! That was just something to tell our parents. We’re not even really building that volcano. I’m a survivalist, remember? I don’t count on anybody but myself.”
“Oh. Well, I’ve never counted on anybody either.”
Something about the way he said this—maybe it was the fact that tears were welling in his eyes—made Cass think twice. Although Cass liked to think of herself as a fearless adventurer, she also wanted to be fair-minded. Technically, it was true, she had never agreed to collaborate with Max-Ernest on the investigation. But she had acted like they were collaborators, and it amounted to the same thing. Almost.
Maybe he was right: she shouldn’t go without him.
After a few seconds of intense, whispered negotiation, they agreed to go back to the magician’s house Monday after school. Even if it meant having to skip an oboe lesson (Cass) and a Mathletes meeting (Max-Ernest). Disappointed but resigned, Cass turned around and headed back to the firehouse.
When she got there, she let Sebastian off his leash and opened the big red front door. Usually, Sebastian would run in at this point and head for the kitchen in search of food. This time, Sebastian hesitated at the door, refusing to enter when Cass tried to nudge him in.
“What’s wrong? Don’t you want your breakfast? You know, food...eat...”
Cass waited until he finally entered the store, but he kept growling and turning his head this way and that, as if trying to catch an elusive scent.
Cass looked inside. Everything was the way it was when she left. It didn’t look as though her grandfathers had made any headway on the inventory.
“Grandpa Larry? Grandpa Wayne?”
Nobody answered.
Cass couldn’t remember the firehouse ever being so silent.
She called their names again.
Something was wrong.
Her instincts told her to turn around and leave as fast as she could.* But what if her grandfathers were bound and gagged and locked in a closet and she could have saved them but she didn’t? Or what if they were lying in the kitchen in a pool of blood breathing their last breaths and she could have been there to hear their dying wishes but she wasn’t? Or what if...
Instead of entering quietly, Cass made a lot of noise as she walked in. She talked loudly to Sebastian. She banged on furniture. She figured if the bad guys heard her, maybe they’d sneak out to avoid being seen. It was better than surprising them and having them knock her unconscious in a moment of panic.
For about ten tense minutes Cass searched the firehouse. She had never realized how many hiding places there were in her grandfathers’ store, how many wardrobes to climb into and tables to climb under. Even so, it looked like her strategy had worked. The bad guys had left when they heard her. Or else they’d already left. Or else they’d never been there. Her grandfathers were not tied up in a closet. There was no blood on the kitchen floor. Everything seemed to be okay.
Except for the fact that her grandfathers were missing.
Then she heard a loud bang. It sounded like gunfire.

CHAPTER TEN
An Awful Accusation

Cass held her breath, unable to move. Had someone been shot?
“Cass, what’s wrong? You’re white as a sheet!”
Grandpa Larry entered, followed by Grandpa Wayne, their arms full of new purchases.
What she’d heard wasn’t gunfire, only the front door.
“I—I thought something happened.”
“Didn’t you see our note?” asked Grandpa Larry. “There was a garage sale down the street. We couldn’t resist.”
“What’s with Sebastian?” asked Grandpa Wayne. “He looks worse than you.”
“He’s...I don’t know,” admitted Cass. “He’s been acting weird all day.”
Only then did Cass notice where Sebastian was standing: right next to the shelf where they stored the Symphony of Smells. Cass blinked in surprise. It was gone!
Grandpa Larry followed her eyes. “What happened to the Symphony of Smells? Did you take it down?”
“No! I mean, yes. But I put it back.”
“Well, where is it? I thought we agreed we’d only look at it together,” said Grandpa Larry, giving her a very slightly reproachful glance.
“Um, it should be there.”
This was perfectly true, but somehow it sounded like Cass was lying—even to herself.
“It wouldn’t be with your things, by any chance? Like in your book bag?” asked Grandpa Wayne.
She shook her head, blushing furiously.
“You know, your ears are telling a different story,” said Grandpa Larry.
She couldn’t believe it—her grandfathers were accusing her of stealing! Usually, they were the only ones who trusted her. And the worst thing was she couldn’t open the bag to prove the Symphony of Smells wasn’t inside—they would see the magician’s notebook.
No, the very worst worst thing was that they were right—she had stolen the Symphony of Smells. But she admitted that she had. And she’d put it back. Which made it borrowing, not stealing. So why did she feel so ashamed? It was all so unfair!
“Just try and think where you might have put it,” said Grandpa Larry. “I know you thought it was a game, but it’s very rare and valuable.”
“She knows that,” said Grandpa Wayne. “I’m sure she’ll find it, and put it right back where it was.”
Nobody mentioned the Symphony of Smells to her again that day, but Cass could tell her grandfathers were thinking about it. At one point, she heard them talking in low voices, speculating that she had broken some of the vials and that she felt too guilty to say anything. If only!
As far as Cass was concerned, there could only be one explanation for the Symphony of Smells’ disappearance: Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais had been there. Their scent must have been what upset Sebastian.
For a brief, mad moment, Cass considered telling her grandfathers everything that happened at the magician’s house, and how she was sure the Symphony of Smells had been stolen by Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais. But she knew it would sound like she was making up the story just to exonerate herself. Once she solved the mystery of what happened to the magician, maybe then she could confide in them—and maybe then they would trust her again.*
Cass hardly admitted it to herself but she was beginning to wish her mother hadn’t left town.
Before she left, her mother had given Cass her first cell phone, something Cass had wanted for years. “So we won’t really be apart,” her mother said. Just like she promised, her mother called every night at nine p.m. sharp to say good night (even though they both knew Cass never went to sleep before midnight). But Cass felt so much pressure to act like everything was fine that their conversations only made her feel more alone.
It was a new sensation—missing her mom. And she didn’t like it.
That night, she told her mother she was too sleepy to talk.
“So, Larry and Wayne are really running you ragged, huh?” asked her mother.
Cass forced a laugh she didn’t feel. “Yeah, totally ragged.”
After she said a rather abrupt good-bye and turned off her cell phone, Grandpa Larry came into her room. She figured he was going to ask her about the Symphony of Smells again, but what he said was:
“Hurry, they’re hot.”
He placed a plate of chocolate chip cookies and a glass of milk beside her bed.
“You better eat them really quickly if you want to burn your tongue and get chocolate all over your fingers.”
Cass laughed and bit into a cookie. It was warm and soft and the chocolate was still melted which was, as Grandpa Larry well knew, just how Cass liked her cookies.
As she swallowed the last bite, she held up her chocolate-covered hand to show him.
“Hmm. I don’t know, your other hand still looks pretty clean,” he said sternly.
Cass felt a little silly, but she obediently grabbed a cookie with her other hand and ate it even more quickly than the first.
“Good. Now, make sure you smear chocolate all over your glass. I want evidence!”
While Cass drank the glass of milk—soothing her burned tongue—Grandpa Larry moved her backpack aside, and sat down on the edge of her bed. Then he proceeded to tell her a story.
A year earlier, if someone had baked Cass cookies and tried to tell her a bedtime story, she might have been insulted and felt she was being treated like a little child. Now, she was just old enough to enjoy again the cozy comforts of a bedtime story. (Trust me, the older you get the more appealing the idea of a bedtime story becomes; and the rarer the chance to hear one.)
I won’t repeat Grandpa Larry’s entire story here because it is what some people call off-topic, but I will try to give you a sense of its general outlines: the story was about a time Larry got separated from his platoon during his stint in the army. The story involved a reed that Larry had pulled out of the ground where it was growing next to a pond. In a single day, Larry used the reed as an underwater breathing device, a fishing pole, a wind instrument, a weapon, and a straw. When the reed snapped in two, he was convinced his luck had run out. Without the use of his magic reed, he told himself, he would perish.
As it turned out, however, the sound of the reed breaking had alerted one of his comrades to his presence, and he was reunited with his platoon moments later.
“So you see, breaking the reed wasn’t the end of the world, just the end of the reed. And the end of this story. Not to mention the end of these cookies,” finished Grandpa Larry, taking the last cookie for himself.
Before Cass could respond, Grandpa Wayne, who had been listening from the doorway, stepped into the room.
“I don’t understand,” he said. “There were plenty more uses for that reed, even after you broke it. You could have made splints. Toothpicks. Chopsticks. A flute. Or at least a piccolo...I’m surprised at you, Larry. What happened to your imagination?”
“That’s not the point, Wayne, and you know it!” said Larry in one of the crossest tones Cass had ever heard him use. “Cass, listen, it doesn’t matter about the Symphony of Smells. Whatever happened, it’s just...a thing. I know you know we like things. And the Symphony of Smells was a nice thing. But, well, if it’s gone, it’s gone.”
“Right. We can always make a new one,” said Grandpa Wayne, at last catching the message of Larry’s story. “In fact, I have an old set of test tubes I found, and I’ve been wondering what to do with them. We could start collecting scents to put in the tubes—”
“What we’re trying to say is that human beings are more important than things,” said Larry, interrupting Wayne.
“At least, Cass is more important,” Wayne qualified.
“Cass, your appearance in our lives has been the greatest gift we could have asked for,” Larry continued, as if Wayne hadn’t spoken. “No matter how many boxes Gloria delivers to our doorstep, nothing inside them could match you. We love you very much.”
As he said this, he put his arms around Cass, and Cass snuggled gratefully against him. “I love you, too,” she said.
But she never said a word about what happened to the Symphony of Smells. Or about anything else.
Moments later, after her grandfathers had bid her good night, Cass picked up her backpack and placed it again by her pillow.
Just in case.

CHAPTER ELEVEN
The MAGICIAN'S NOTEBOOK

For most people, Monday mornings are a source of dread. Although Cass was unconventional in many ways, including her attitude toward most days of the week, she, too, often felt a sense of doom on Monday mornings, when she faced the prospect of the long school week ahead.
But on this Monday morning, on the school bus, Cass could hardly think about school. She was too excited.
That afternoon the investigation would resume.
Slipping down low in her seat, out of view of the other student passengers, she pulled the magician’s notebook out of her backpack and examined it in her hands. The notebook was larger than the common, school variety, and it was flatter. It had no rings and was more like a binder than what you usually think of as a notebook. The leather cover was brown and shiny and embossed, Cass noticed now, with a familiar Art Nouveau design: the same swirling vines and flowers that decorated the Symphony of Smells. But Cass was certain the notebook was not nearly as old. The magician must have had it made to match. Maybe, when her investigation was over, she could ask her grandfathers about that.
As she flipped through the pages of the notebook, she accidentally discovered something about them: all the pages were double pages, folded over on themselves. After a little fiddling, she released the pages from their binding and they opened up like an accordion.
She stared in amazement.
Unwittingly, she had figured out what “UNDERNEATH” meant. The answer wasn’t buried underground; it had been right in front of them all along. The magician’s story was written on the reverse sides of the notebook pages—underneath them.
The rest of the bus ride was pure torture. All she could think about was what was written on the undersides of the notebook pages. She wanted nothing more than to start reading but she knew that wouldn’t be fair to Max-Ernest. As annoying as he was, she reminded herself, they were collaborators. She had to wait.
Hoping to catch Max-Ernest before he went to class, Cass started looking for him as soon as she got to school. Unfortunately, she couldn’t walk very fast; something was standing in the middle of the hallway, impeding traffic.
When she got closer, she saw that that something was Benjamin Blake.
Oblivious to the crowd of students around him, Benjamin stared at the paintings on the wall, as though he couldn’t quite believe they were real. The funny thing was: the paintings were his. As was the plaque next to them, declaring him the winner of the Young Leonardos Contest. As were the congratulatory letters from the mayor and the governor. As was—well, you get the idea.
As Cass tried to pass him, Benjamin mumbled unintelligibly; it sounded like he said, “I smell a hint—dip your ice cream.”
“I don’t have any ice cream—does it look like I do?” responded Cass, who hated mumbling even when she wasn’t in a hurry. “By the way, in case you haven’t noticed, you’re in everybody’s way. Besides, you probably shouldn’t stand in front of your paintings like that. It looks kind of conceited.”
Benjamin reddened—and rushed off in the direction Cass had come from. Cass continued down the hall, knowing she had been a little insensitive—it wasn’t Benjamin’s fault he was the way he was—but she didn’t have time to worry about his feelings. She had to find Max-Ernest.
She hadn’t made it much farther when her path was blocked by Mrs. Johnson, who was talking to some other grown-ups and showing them around the school. Cass was about to push past them when she stopped cold, her heart beating a mile a minute.
It was them. She was positive. She recognized their hair. And the gloves on their hands.
At her school.
Cass hung back a few feet, shielding her face with her backpack in case Dr. L or Ms. Mauvais turned around.
“Well, I guess that’s all the questions we have,” Ms. Mauvais was saying in her terrible tinkle. “We’re glad to see you have such talented students and staff.”
“Thank you so much for your time,” added Dr. L in his recognizably unrecognizable accent. “You’re very generous.”
“Not at all,” said Ms. Johnson, beaming at them. “It’s wonderful to see such involved and concerned parents. I’m sure your son will be very happy at our school.”
Their son? thought Cass. What son?
Dr. L turned, so Cass had to duck out of sight. When she looked again, they were gone. And Mrs. Johnson was walking toward her.
Cass waited for the principal, then started walking alongside her. Mrs. Johnson was a fast walker. It was hard to keep up.
“Those people—did they ask about me?”
“Cassandra, when you want to speak to me, you should say ‘excuse me, Mrs. Johnson.’ Then wait until you have my attention.”
“Excuse me, Mrs. Johnson. Do I have your attention now?”
“Yes, you do. And, no, they did not ask about you. Why would they? They’re parents of a prospective student. They were asking about our art program.”
“Then they were lying,” said Cass fiercely. “They’re horrible. I don’t even think they’re really parents.”
“Cassandra! What an awful thing to say about people you don’t even know.”
“Did you notice how they were wearing gloves even though it’s hot out?”
“Some people consider it polite to wear gloves in company. Personally, I think it’s a very refined habit. I may just start wearing them myself.” Mrs. Johnson looked hard at Cass from underneath her large turquoise hat. “Is this all because I wouldn’t order that evacuation you wanted? You know, if I shut down the school every time you thought something was wrong nobody here would ever get an education!”
“Yeah, I’m sorry, Mrs. Johnson. Bye.”
Cass left Mrs. Johnson shaking her head and hurried down the hall. But it was too late. They were gone.
Cass spent a good ten minutes—at least five of those minutes being past the beginning of first period—searching the school inside and out. To no avail. Not only couldn’t she find Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais, she couldn’t even find Max-Ernest.
Just as she was trying to figure out what excuse she could give her teacher for being late, she happened to look through the school’s back gate—
Across the street, Dr. L. and Ms. Mauvais were slipping into a waiting limousine. The limousine was painted a blue so dark it was almost black, and decorated with tiny, jewel-like stars. Emblazoned in gold across the door were the image of a rising sun and the words:

The Midnight Sun 
Sensorium & Spa

The whole vehicle shimmered so brilliantly it looked enchanted.
As the limousine drove out of sight, a boy’s face was briefly visible, staring out the back window.
Cass stared back, imagining for a second that she had caught the boy’s eye. Why did he look so familiar? Was Ms. Johnson right? Was that their son? Was it possible they really were parents? Cass dismissed the idea as soon as it popped into her head. She remembered the awful things they had screamed at her and Max-Ernest. No parent would ever say those things to a kid. No real parent.
By a lucky coincidence, Cass and Max-Ernest both had study hall that morning after first period. As soon as she saw him, Cass pulled Max-Ernest over to the desk that occupied the most private corner of the school library.
Speaking so fast that all her words blurred together, she filled him in on how “the Symphony of Smells was stolen from the fire house on Saturday and I know it had to be Ms.Mauvais and Dr. L because Sebastian went totally crazy and then they showed up at our school this morning, can you believe it?, with Mrs. Johnson taking a tour! She said they were parents and then I saw them leave with a boy in the back of this limousine that had the-name Midnight Sun on it!”
Most people wouldn’t have been able to understand her. Max-Ernest was such a fast talker himself he had no trouble.
“They have a kid? I don’t believe it,” he said.
“Exactly! That’s what I’m saying,” said Cass, slowing down only because she had exhausted herself. “I think the parent thing was just a lie, you know, a cover story, so they could look for us. But then who was the kid in the limousine?...Hey, I almost forgot. I figured out what ‘UNDERNEATH’ means—it means underneath the pages. All the writing is in the notebook, it’s just hidden!”
“Wow. Did you read it?”
“No, I waited for you.”
Cass didn’t say “I waited because we’re collaborators.” And Max-Ernest didn’t say “Thanks, that means a lot to me.” But each could tell what the other was thinking.
“You know,” Cass said after a moment. “You don’t always talk so much. Every once in a while, you’re quiet. Like now.”
“You’re right,” said Max-Ernest, amazed. “And I wasn’t even trying. How ’bout that?”
“So what did that new doctor say your condition was, anyway?”
“He said he wouldn’t know for sure as long as my parents were living together, because my family situation was too stressful.”
“Really? So are your parents going to stop living together?”
“No, they just got into a big fight about it. But at least they were talking to each other!”
Cass and Max-Ernest had to be quiet for a minute because they got a warning look from the librarian, but when the librarian left—study hall always operated on the honor system—they wasted no time in opening the notebook.
They could now see that, far from being blank, the entire notebook was full of the magician’s handwriting; it was just that the notebook was inside out, or rather outside in. Judging by the slant of the letters, he had written very fast. Whatever he was writing about must have been very important.
While Max-Ernest leaned in close, Cass read to him in a whisper, her face growing increasingly grave with every sentence.

Dear Reader,
If you are reading these words, I know about you two things.
You are brave enough to hold in your hands this notebook, a notebook for which all over the world the villains are searching. And you are clever enough to decipher a riddle, the riddle on the other side of these pages.
Both these qualities you will need in the days ahead.
My life is in danger. For this reason, I write.
No, I do not fear the death—I am an old man and I have survived worse things—but I do not want to die without I first make right an ancient wrong.
Do you know the expression, The ignorance is the bliss? Think on it well. Some secrets are not meant to be known—but once known you can never forget them.
If certain people discover you have learned the things I am about to tell you—Let me just say this, that it is the safest for you to stop reading now and to leave this notebook far away from the place you call home. If instead you keep reading, please, I beg you, repeat to no one my story.

Here Cass put the notebook down and looked at Max-Ernest. He was still being unusually quiet.
“Well?” Cass prompted him.
“Well, what?” Max-Ernest asked.
“Well, should I keep reading?”
“He has a weird way of writing,” Max-Ernest said, as if in answer to her question. “I think maybe he’s foreign.”
“That means, no, you don’t want me to keep reading?”
“No, it doesn’t mean ‘no.’”
“So then it means ‘yes’?”
“Yes. I guess.”
“Oh. Well, I think I should keep reading, too,” said Cass. “I just thought, you know, if you thought it was too dangerous—”
“I’m not scared!” said Max-Ernest. “I just think he sounds foreign.”
“I’m not scared, either.”
“So keep reading then.”
“OK, then, I will.”
Cass picked up the notebook again and coughed just the way Grandpa Larry did before he started a story—for some reason, her throat felt dry—and then she began to read—
Although I am reluctant for obvious reasons, I think I must also continue recording the magician’s story. You see, the magician’s story goes straight to the heart of mine. It is not too much to say my story would not exist without his.
You and I, then, will read over the shoulders of Max-Ernest and Cass. Before we do, I suggest you take a break. If you need to go to the bathroom, this is a good time. If you’re sleepy, go to bed and save the next chapter for tomorrow. For the magician’s story, you must have all your wits about you. No wandering minds allowed.

CHAPTER TWELVE
THE STORY of the BERGAMO BROTHERS Part 1

Are you ready? Rested? Alert?
Or did you just skip ahead because you couldn’t wait?
If so, I’d like to point out that reading by flashlight under a blanket is always a good way to tackle the most difficult and dangerous parts of a book. I’d also suggest you have a snack handy. Or some gum to chew. Otherwise you might find yourself biting your fingernails until they bleed.
OK. Have all your reading supplies at hand?
Here it is, then, the magician’s story in his own words:

LA STORIA DELLA MIA VITA
“THE STORY OF MY LIFE”
by
Pietro Bergamo

Never trust a magician. We use words only to divert your attention. Look at my pretty scarf, we say, so you do not see our sleight of hand when the rabbit disappears.
But I write now as a man, not a magician, and I promise my story is true. How I wish it were not! For it is the story of the tragedy of my childhood, and of a terrible secret that has brought nothing but the misery and the death.
My brother, Luciano, and I, we were born in a small town in Italy, in the time between the Wars.
We were twins—what they call in English the “fraternal” twins, not the identical twins. A distinction that is very useless, I think. Yes, if you looked at us closely, there were many differences between us—like the birthmark on the back of Luciano’s neck that resembled so perfectly a crescent moon. But Luciano and I, we were identical in our hearts.
When we turned nine years old, our lives, as they say, turned upside down. A terrible man rose to power in Italy, and our whole family it was in danger.* Our parents, they were being watched, but they managed to find the passage for Luciano and me on a boat to America. They promised to join us as soon as they could, but we knew that would not be very soon. Or maybe ever.
It was an awful thing to leave our home at such a young age, but at least we had each other. During the time we were making the crossing of the Atlantic Ocean, we never left each other’s sides. As a parting gift, our father, he had given to us an old book of the magic tricks, and we spent all our days practicing the card tricks and amusing the crew on the boat. Every night, as we went to sleep, we fantasized about our new lives in America, and how we would become world-famous magicians.
Our mother, she had a cousin in Kansas City. We were very excited to be going there because we had heard the story of the Wizard of Oz and we knew Kansas was full of the tornadoes and the adventure. What we did not know (until it was too late) was that her part of Kansas City was in Missouri, over sixty miles far from the capital of Kansas, Topeka, where we happened to get off the train.
It was the nighttime and we were cold and tired and we’d been wandering through the streets of Topeka for several hours when we saw a marvelous spectacle lit up in front of us: a circus.
Alas, having no money, we could not enter the circus tent, the Big Top, as it is called.** But we found a flap in the tent through which we could watch the horses galloping, the clowns juggling, and even a mangy old tiger jumping through a hoop of fire.
What most impressed us was the Ringmaster, so magnificent in his top hat and tails. We didn’t speak much English but we could tell what he was saying by the tone of his voice, and by the screams and the cheers of the crowd. At one point, I could have sworn he saw us and he winked at us. It was like as if he knew us and, although we were outside and we had not paid for the tickets, we were the most important audience members of all.
When the show ended, we followed with the rest of the circus audience out into the Midway. This was an old-fashioned traveling circus with all the great sideshow attractions like a fire-eating strong man, a fat lady with a beard (which we later learned was fake), and a “fakir” (actually a white man dressed up to look like an Indian swami). Being amateur magicians, we wanted to look inside all the booths, but the carnival workers—the carnies—they were watching us like as if they were the hawks.
We had such a great hunger that the smell of all the cotton candy and the popcorn and the peanuts was almost too much to suffer. Then we spied a food cart that had been left unattended. A row of red candy apples glistened under a string of lights, ripe for the taking. Quickly, we each grabbed an apple and darted into the shadows behind the cages of the animals. What luck!
But as soon as we sank our teeth in, those apples they were ripped out of our hands. Shocked, we looked up to see grinning down at us a tough old carny. He was missing most of his teeth and, believe me, that grin was a scary thing to see.
“Nice of you to help feed the animals,” he said, tossing our apples into the cage of the tiger.
“Oh, no,” he laughed as we watched the tiger swat aside our apples like a cat with the yarn. “She don’t like apples. Them apples is just to give her the smell. The smell of human, I mean.”
As he said this, he gripped us by the scruffs of our necks, and he made a big show of sniffing us like as if we were the dinner. Then he dragged us toward the door of the cage of the tiger. We screamed and we struggled, but it was useless, his grip was so strong.
By now, we were crying and pleading for our lives in Italian. We thought truly we had reached the end.
“Good-bye,” I said to Luciano.
“No, not good-bye, just arrivederci,” he said, looking up toward the sky. “We will be together always.”
“Yes, together always,” I said, trying to be as brave as he was. I touched my finger to the crescent moon of his birthmark and I closed my eyes.
“Let go of them, Sammy!”
It was the Ringmaster walking toward us. “Don’t worry, boys. That old tiger don’t got any more teeth than Sammy does. She couldn’t hurt a fly!”
Eyes twinkling, he said we should know better than to run away like that with the stolen goods.
“When you steal something, you should walk away slowly,” he instructed us. “Otherwise you attract attention.”
As a punishment for our poor attempt at thievery, the Ringmaster ordered us to help Sammy clean the cages of the animals. Very relieved to be alive, we worked so hard that even Sammy was happy with us.
The next morning, exhausted but also exhilarated, we were sitting outside the Ringmaster’s trailer with his three-year-old daughter while inside his wife prepared the breakfast. To pass the time, we took out our deck of cards and practiced the tricks—which the Ringmaster’s daughter seemed to find extremely amusing. We did not know it but the Ringmaster he was watching us from the trailer. When we finished, he applauded.
“Lucy knows a good trick when she sees it,” he said, pointing to his daughter. “We try out all our acts on her.”
After Luciano and I we ate all the bacon and the flapjacks (why is it that the food always tastes so much better in the outside?) the Ringmaster instructed to us to help his crew pack up the tents. He never asked from where we came or to where we were going. He just assumed that we would be traveling with the circus—and so did we.
If you’re one of the lucky (or is it the unlucky?) people that are meant for the life of the circus, it is as natural as the migrating is for the geese, or as the hibernating is for the bear.
After reading that last sentence, Cass closed the magician’s notebook. She had to stop reading not because the story had ended but because the bell had rung. Actually, it had started ringing around the time Pietro and his brother were being fed to the tiger and if Cass and Max-Ernest didn’t move very quickly they were going to be late for their next classes.
Max-Ernest, in an unusually rebellious mood, suggested they skip their classes altogether and continue reading, but Cass pointed out that they might attract unwanted attention that way. After all, neither of them was in the habit of ditching class. So they reluctantly agreed to postpone reading until lunch, when they would remeet behind the gym.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN 14 
The Story Of The BERGAMO BROTHERS Part 2 

*OF COURSE, I DON'T REALLY BELIEVE THAT THE NUMBER THIRTEEN IS BAD LUCK - BUT UNDER THE CIRCUMSTANCES, WHY NOT PLAY IT SAFE?

When lunch hour arrived, Cass was so anxious to get back to the magician’s notebook that she didn’t notice the police cars and fire trucks parked in front of the school.
Can you imagine—Cass missing what may well have been the first real disaster in her school’s history? What can I say—even a survivalist gets distracted sometimes.
I promise we’ll return to those police cars and whatever terrible event it is that they foreshadow. But let’s stay with Cass for the moment; I’m sure you’re almost as anxious to get back to the notebook as she was.
In case for some reason you had to stop reading earlier when she did—if, say, some mean person caught you reading this book when you were supposed to be doing your schoolwork, or when you were supposed to be outside “enjoying the sun”—I remind you that Pietro and his brother, after accidentally stumbling on the circus, have now become a part of it.
As soon as Max-Ernest joined her behind the gym, Cass jumped right back in and started reading aloud:
After a few weeks in which we did every job from cleaning up the elephant dung to acting as the shills, the Ringmaster let us put together our own circus act. The act included not only the card tricks but also the mind reading—this was perfect for us because we knew each other so well and practically we had been in the telepathic communication all of our lives.
Also, and this will become important to my tale, we both had the condition that is called the “synesthesia”—the confusion of the senses.*
For people who have the synesthesia, the sounds and the colors and even the smells are all mixed up in our heads.
When I hear the sound of scraping metal, I see a streak of bright yellow-green light. Screeching tires are orange-red. Most bells are blue, although when I see the blue, I don’t hear the bells, I smell the soap.
There was even a certain woman who needed only to say one word and I would see a dark gray cloud and then feel like I was drowning in the coldest lake on the Earth—but I am getting ahead of myself. She appears a little later in my history. If only she never appeared at all!
What was the most helpful for our act was that, for me and for Luciano, the numbers and the letters they all had the colors. For example, the number 1 was green, 2 was purple, and 3 was yellow. At the same time, the letter X was red, Y was gray, and Z was turquoise.*
I can recall the day my brother and I first realized that other people did not see the letters the way we saw them. We were seven years old and a friend from the neighborhood she was drawing with us. She kept writing her name over and over and we kept telling her she was using the wrong colors. I am ashamed to say we were not very nice about it. Our friend started crying so loudly that our mother had to come and tell us that our friend could use whatever colors she chose.
In the circus, it was very easy for us to have conversations with each other in the color code. If I asked a girl in the audience what day her birthday was, I could tell Luciano the date simply by waving at him a few colored scarves. He would pretend to concentrate really hard, then he would shout out her birthday like it had come to him in the trance. In this way, we seemed like very convincing psychics.
Over time, our act grew into something very splendid. The Ringmaster’s wife, she made for us the satin capes and the turbans, and Sammy, who was now our friend, he helped us to create some magical effects with the music and the smoke and the lights of many colors. But it was after a mysterious gift arrived that our act truly came to life—and also came to the end.
One afternoon, a local boy, he brought to us a large package wrapped in brown paper. He said a beautiful lady had paid to him a buck to deliver it to us—a fortune of money in those days.
As soon as he left, we ripped open the package. At first, we had no idea at what we were looking, or why it had been given to us. It was a wooden case, very old, containing dozens of the glass vials. Was it some kind of chemistry kit? For what purpose was it?
Only when we saw a small brass plaque that read “The Symphony of Smells” did we have the inkling. Could it be true? Were there other people in the world who experienced the music and the smells together? How fantastic!
After a few days of the experiments, we discovered we could make stronger the scents by making a fire and pouring in just a little bit from the vials. The smoke it turned many colors, and the aromas they filled the air. We added also a little of the gunpowder—enough to make the sparks together with the smoke and the smells. It was very exciting to see.
Luciano and I, we practiced every day until we were able to communicate with the smelly smoke—“smell signals” we called it. Imagine— now I could tell Luciano the name of somebody’s cat just by releasing the scent of mustard into the air! Truly our act was now “the feast for all the senses.”
The Ringmaster, he liked it so much he bought for us a special tent with a big banner announcing “The Amazing Bergamo Brothers and Their Symphony of Smells.” Everywhere we went he put up the posters advertising our act. And the crowds, they lined up again and again.
It had been a year since we’d joined the circus and we were once again in Kansas. There was an article about our act in the newspaper and we wondered if perhaps our mother’s cousin would come to see us. Who knew—maybe our parents had already come from Italy and they would come, too!
During the show, I searched the audience, but I saw nobody special. Except, that is, for a woman who stepped into our tent toward the end of our show—and made me forget all about my parents.
This woman, she was so beautiful she seemed to make the whole world stand still. She had blue eyes and a waist so tiny she should have herself been a circus attraction. She had long blond hair, and she wore long, elegant gloves that reached up to her elbows. Gold jewelry glittered on her everywhere.
Truly she is a Golden Lady, I thought.
Afterward, I saw her standing by the entrance of our tent. When the rest of the crowd had left, she smiled and told my brother and me how much she enjoyed our show.
“Did you like your present?” she asked. “It seems you’ve put it to good use.”
“What present?” I asked.
“Why the Symphony of Smells, of course! It’s quite a treasure, you know. It was made by a French doctor many years ago. A scientist by training. But he was a great lover of the arts.”
Before we could thank her for the gift, the Golden Lady, she said she had a proposition for us. Could she take us to the dinner to discuss it?
Since we had never been to a restaurant before, her offer was very exciting and my brother eagerly accepted it. I, however, did not want to go. I had no real reason to be suspicious—and yet, as soon as I heard her speak, I knew she was not what she seemed.
Yes, as you may have guessed, the Golden Lady was the woman whose voice made me feel like as if I was drowning. I shiver now, just to think about it.
I tried to make the excuses, reminding my brother of all the chores we had to do. He kept saying our chores should wait. What was wrong with me? Here this nice woman was offering to take us to a real restaurant! And it went on like that. I think he was more than a little bit in love with her.
Finally, the Golden Lady she suggested that Luciano go to the dinner while I stayed behind. “If I can’t have both brothers, can’t I at least have one?” she asked, as if she was the child and we were the toys in the toy store.
I could see that Luciano was nervous about being separated from me for the first time in our lives, but we were too much angry at each other to argue against the idea. My brother, he left without saying the good-bye.
I stayed up all the night waiting for Luciano, imagining all the terrible things that could happen to him. When he had not returned by the morning, I searched the roads, looking for the signs of an accident. Then I searched the circus grounds, thinking maybe he was hiding from me because of the anger.
My brother, he was nowhere.
When I found the Ringmaster inside his trailer he looked very surprised to see me, as if I were a ghost or I had just sprouted the antlers. But he recovered quickly and started barking the orders at me. It was almost time to go. What was I doing lollygagging around? When I tried to tell to him about Luciano being taken away, he said he was too busy to worry about my brother.
The Ringmaster, he always acted impatient like this, but he said something else which confused me. “Anyway, she seemed like such a nice lady,” he said under his breath. “I’m sure your brother won’t come to any harm.”
How would he know? I wondered. Had he met the Golden Lady?
As he spoke, I noticed him pick up something from the table. It was a pile of the cash and he played with it in a very nervous way. I was still young but I’d been around long enough to comprehend what meant the money.
Nowadays, it would be a very shocking thing to sell a pair of ten-year-old twins to a stranger. This was the circus. My brother and I, we were some carnival attractions, no better than the trained monkeys. I wasn’t very surprised that the Ringmaster would trade us for a few dollar bills. But I hated him for it.
“I’ll kill you!” I yelled, and then I ran away from the trailer—and from the circus—as fast I could.
The rest of my story it is seventy years long, but it is really very short.
I knew better than to go to the police. I was young and Italian and a carny—three strikes against me as far as the police would be concerned. Instead, I spent the years living on my own on the streets, searching for my brother, checking the back of every neck for that crescent-shaped birthmark. I never found so much as a single clue as to where was Luciano.
Except once.
A couple days after I fled from the circus, I hitchhiked to the next town where the circus had put up its tents. My plan was to murder the Ringmaster in his sleep. How I intended to do this I do not know—I had no weapons nor any experience as a murderer.
Whatever my plan was, I was too late. Where once the circus had been there was now nothing but the ash.
I wandered around the blackened fairgrounds in a daze. Some of the larger pieces of the rubble were still smoldering and the smoke hovered above. There was also a terrible odor in the air which at the time I thought was the smell of the rotten eggs but I now know was the smell of the sulfur.
I did not know exactly what had happened, but I was certain about one thing: the fire, it had been meant for me.
In the middle of all the ashes and the debris, I spied a crumpled piece of paper. I recognized the handwriting on it even from many feet away. It was a note from my brother, written in a code we had invented for the Symphony of Smells.
It said one word: “HELP.”
The note, it was like a knife inside my heart.
After the loss of my brother, the magic it no longer had any magic for me. Still, I had to make the living. So I performed in the parks and on the street corners—and on the trains when I could hop a ride with the hoboes.
Eventually, I graduated to the nightclubs and the theaters, and I believe I am a success as far as magicians go. I never socialized much, however-—no friend could ever take my brother’s place—and today I am an old hermit.
Yet I have never given up the hope of finding Luciano. Against all reason, I feel inside me that he is still alive.
One day, a few years ago, I was looking in a science magazine—the world of nature it has always interested me far more than the world of man—and I noticed an article about the synesthesia.
What most caught me was a reference to a prodigy child of the 1960s, a girl so talented at the violin that she came to be an international sensation. She claimed to see the colors when she played the music—a well-known form of the synesthesia—and she wrote a magnificent piece of the music called “The Rainbow Sonata” when she was only seven years old. At age nine she was kidnapped and never heard from again.
Another child with the synesthesia kidnapped! Just a coincidence? Perhaps. But it was the first clue I had found in seventy years. I had no choice but to investigate.
Mysteriously, all the newspaper stories about the violinist were missing from the libraries. At last, in a used bookstore in Alaska, I discovered an old magazine article that described the circumstance of her kidnapping. According to an usher at the concert hall where she had last performed, the violinist was seen talking to a woman shortly before her disappearance. The usher he said the woman was “dazzling.” She had the blond hair and the gold—
“Aaargh! It’s so annoying!”
Cass turned the notebook over and over in frustration, looking for more hidden pages.
“That’s it?” Max-Ernest asked.
“Yeah, it just ends there.”
“But we never found out what the terrible secret is.”
“I know. I think maybe he wrote more but he ripped it out. Look—” Cass opened the notebook flat and pointed to a broken seam, barely visible on the inside of the spine. “Like if he had to run away really quickly and he couldn’t take the whole notebook, the pages had to fit in his pocket.”
“You mean like if he heard someone coming or he smelled fire or something? I guess that’s possible,” said Max-Ernest. “Or else maybe he was killed, and the killer took the pages. Or—”
“Exactly,” Cass interrupted, grim. “You know who she is, right?”
“Who?” asked Max-Ernest.
“The Golden Lady. Couldn’t you tell? The Golden Lady is Ms. Mauvais.”
Max-Ernest shook his head. “No, she’s not. She can’t be—”
“Yeah, she is. Listen—” Cass flipped through the notebook. “She has a teeny waist, all that jewelry. She wears gloves.”
“It does sound like her,” agreed Max-Ernest. “But she’s not the Golden Lady. It wouldn’t make any sense.”
“What—why? Name one reason you think it’s not her.”
“OK. Here’s one reason. The lady in the story, at the circus, it was a really, really long time ago. If it was Ms. Mauvais, she would be like a hundred years old now. If she was even still alive. How ’bout that?”
Cass bit her lip. He had a point. Ms. Mauvais didn’t look anywhere near that old.
“Maybe if she was a vampire, then it could be her,” Max-Ernest suggested. “But that’s highly doubtful. Nobody thinks there are real vampires. Except for vampire bats—they’re real. And Count Dracula—he was real. But he wasn’t a real vampire. He was just a mean old guy. At least, that’s what people think. There’s no way to know for sure. He’s dead. I mean, unless he really was a—”
“OK, OK. Forget vampires. I agree, it’s not her. It wouldn’t make any sense,” said Cass. “So what do you think we should do?”
“I think we should get rid of the notebook as fast as we can, just like he said we should at the beginning,” said Max-Ernest.
“You mean stop the investigation? Don’t you even want to know what the secret is?”
“It’s too dangerous,” said Max-Ernest. “We’re only eleven. Personally, I don’t want to be kidnapped—just so we can know what happens at the end of a book.”
“That’s not the point,” said Cass heatedly. “Don’t you have any sense of honor? We owe it to Pietro to find out what happened. He was such a nice man—”
“We didn’t even know him!”
“I know—he didn’t really know anybody. That’s why if we don’t continue his investigation, who will?”
Max-Ernest didn’t have an answer.
“Besides,” Cass added, “it’s too late to back out. Maybe we don’t know who Ms. Mauvais is, but she definitely knows who we are.”

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
A Confusion OF THE SENSES

Cass and Max-Ernest emerged from behind the gym so lost in conversation that it took them several seconds to notice that the entire school yard was empty.
"“I can’t believe it,” said Cass. “Finally they evacuate the school, and I wasn’t even there.”
“I think maybe it was a false alarm.” Max-Ernest nodded in the direction of the auditorium: kids and teachers had started streaming out.
Amber walked toward them, her Smoochie-of-the-week dangling from her neck.
“Where were you?” she asked. “You missed the assembly!”
Amber, who aside from being the nicest girl in school was also the chattiest (if she wasn’t so nice, you might have said she was the most gossipy), told them the news: Benjamin Blake was missing. That was why the police and fire department had been there.
Amber explained that Benjamin had been dropped off at school that morning, but he’d never gone to class. Nobody had seen him leave; nobody had picked him up. He didn’t have a hall pass or a trip slip or a doctor’s excuse or even a note from his parents. Any student who had seen Benjamin or who had any idea as to his whereabouts was supposed to tell Mrs. Johnson immediately, so the police could be alerted.
“I can’t believe you didn’t know,” said Amber when she finished her summary of events. “I thought you loved emergencies, Cass.”
“I don’t love them,” said Cass irritably. “I just like to be prepared. Actually, that’s what we were doing just now. Preparing for an emergency.”
“We’re collaborators,” said Max-Ernest.
Which made Cass want to throttle him.
“Oh, well, I think it’s so great you two are friends,” said Amber.
Which made Cass want to throttle her.
“By the way, I’m almost done with this,” Amber added, holding up her Smoochie. “It’s Cotton Candy. Do you want it, Cass?”
“Um, sure. Thanks, Amber,” said Cass automatically.
Which made her want to throttle herself.
“It was my hundredth Smoochie,” Amber boasted, as she handed it over. “They gave me this when I bought it.” She gestured to the front of her T shirt which said:

I’VE SMOOCHED A HUNDRED TIMES!

in glitter writing that sparkled in the sun. She twirled around; on the back the T-shirt said:

Honorary Skelton Sister

“What’s a Skeleton Sister?” asked Max-Ernest after Amber had rejoined her friends. “Is that a horror movie or a comic or something?”
“Not Skeleton, just Skelt—oh, never mind,” said Cass. “Your name is better. That’s what they look like anyways.”
As she and Max-Ernest walked back to class, Cass told him about running into Benjamin that morning in the hallway. “I might have been the last person to talk to him—ever.”
And I was so mean to him! she thought guiltily. But she kept that part to herself.
“Are you going to tell Mrs. Johnson?” asked Max-Ernest.
“I don’t know. She’ll probably just think I’m making it up,” Cass said with more than a little bitterness.
Like most of the students at their school, Cass and Max-Ernest usually passed by all the artwork in the hallway without giving it any more thought than they gave the citizenship trophies in the glass case or the toy drive announcements on the bulletin board. Now, knowing Benjamin Blake was missing, they stopped and looked more closely at his paintings.
“I don’t see what’s so great about them,” said Max-Ernest. “I mean, what are they really pictures of? They just look like screen savers.”
“They’re not pictures of anything, that’s the point,” said Cass, who suddenly felt called upon to defend Benjamin. It was the least she could do, considering how she’d treated him. “Haven’t you ever heard of abstract art? Just look at the colors. And the shapes.”
“What else could I be looking at? That’s all there is!”
One painting consisted mainly of rippling circles, like someone had dropped something into a purple lake.
“Rain Song?” asked Max-Ernest, eyeing the card taped to the wall next to the painting. “Why is it a song? There’s no sound, no words—”
“How’m I supposed to know? I guess it’s what he thinks of when he thinks of...rain.”
Max-Ernest said it figured that somebody as nonsensical as Benjamin Blake would disappear. He probably didn’t even know where he was half the time.
“But I hope he’s OK, anyway,” Max-Ernest added. “Even though he never makes any sense, he’s not a bad person. At least, not bad bad. Just bad—logically. I mean, what if people were sentenced to death just cause they didn’t make sense—”
He trailed off because Cass wasn’t listening; she was reading the titles of the other paintings. One was called Music of Crickets and Cars. Another was Song I Sing When I’m Scared. Another was The Radio in My Mother’s Office.
A frown took shape on Cass’s face.
“What?” demanded Max-Ernest.
“Don’t you see?”
“See what?”
“Benjamin Blake is like the Bergamo Brothers.”
“What do you mean?”
“He has—what’s it called? The confusion of the senses.”
“He’s synesthetic?”
Cass nodded.
“How do you know?”
“All his paintings are paintings of music—”
“So?”
“So that’s a confusion of the senses. Like seeing songs.”
“Huh. Maybe,” said Max-Ernest, obviously not convinced.
“C’mon, we gotta tell someone!” said Cass, turning away from the paintings.
“Why? What’s the big deal?”
“Don’t you get it? He was the boy in the limousine. Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais—they kidnapped Benjamin.”
“But I thought you said Ms. Mauvais wasn’t the same lady as in the notebook.”
“Well, I take it back. I don’t care how old she is—they did it. Now c’mon—”
Cass started running down the hall. Max-Ernest struggled to keep up.
“You’re saying all this just ’cause of a purple painting?”
Cass nodded. “They must have seen Benjamin’s paintings when they were looking for us. And then she decided to take him. Just like she took the magician’s brother. And that violin girl.”
“You’re crazy,” said Max-Ernest.
“I am not!”
“This is just another one of your crazy predictions. Like with that mouse. You thought it died from toxic waste, and it was just rat poison.”
“We don’t know that for sure,” said Cass, her ears stinging. (She hadn’t known that Max-Ernest had seen the rat poison.) “Anyways, this is different. Benjamin’s life is in danger, and you don’t even care.”
“Well, I don’t think you really care, either. My new doctor says it’s just ’cause of the way your dad died with the lightning and everything that you’re a survivalist and you’re always trying to save everybody. It doesn’t have anything to do with them.”
Cass stopped running and stared at Max-Ernest. “You told your doctor about my dad?”
“So? You said it wasn’t a secret secret.”
“It’s not—”
“Then why are you so mad?”
“I’m not mad!”
“Your ears are all red.”
“They’re not!”
“You can’t even see them.”
“Anyways, it doesn’t matter what you think because I don’t think we should be collaborators anymore,” said Cass, surreptitiously checking her reflection in a glass case.
“Really?”
“With your condition, it’s not really safe. For either of us.”
“Nobody even knows what my condition is!”
“That’s why it’s so dangerous. I just can’t count on you. No offense. It’s not personal. Anyway, I gotta go to class.”
“Me, too,” said Max-Ernest.
Without saying good-bye, each turned away from the other and headed toward opposite ends of the hall.
I know—it’s upsetting.
I wish I could report that Max-Ernest suddenly understood why Cass might have not have wanted him to tell his doctor about her father, even if it wasn’t technically a secret, and that he immediately ran after Cass and apologized. Or that Cass suddenly realized that Max-Ernest hadn’t meant any harm by telling his doctor, and that she immediately ran after Max-Ernest and told him they could be collaborators again. Or that they both suddenly realized that friendship was more important than petty differences and they ran back toward each other and gave each other a big hug.
But I can’t report any of those things; they didn’t happen. At another time, I might make up a make-up scene to make you feel better. Normally, I have no qualms about pandering to my audience. However, the way the story unfolds from here is affected by the fight between Cass and Max-Ernest. If I were to end their fight now, the rest of the story wouldn’t make any sense. So forgive me—in this instance at least, I must stick with the truth.
In fact, Cass wasn’t thinking that much about Max-Ernest after she left him; she was thinking about Benjamin Blake. More particularly, what Cass was thinking was that it was her fault that Benjamin Blake was kidnapped.
Her reasoning went like this:
1. Had she never taken the magician’s notebook, Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L would never have come hunting for her.
2. Had Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L never come hunting for her, they would never have seen Benjamin’s paintings.
3. Had they never seen Benjamin’s paintings, they would never have kidnapped him.
Conclusion: it was her responsibility to make sure he got home safe before he was burned alive in a sulfurous inferno.


CHAPTEEN SIXTEEN
A Rumour About Monkey Blood, A Forged Ransom Note, And A Scary Phone Call

Dear Mrs. Johnson,
Good day.
We have kidnapped

Cass had only one clue as to Benjamin’s whereabouts: the name on the limousine in which he was taken away, The Midnight Sun Sensorium and Spa.
She had no idea what a sensorium was—unless it was one of those isolation tanks she’d heard about. You know, the ones in which people are submerged in water until they regress all the way back to being fetuses in their mothers’ wombs? But she knew what a spa was—more or less.
Spas were places for what her mother called “me time,” and they usually included a massage. Cass had even been to a spa once—if you counted the booth that Amber and her friends had built for that year’s school fair. (All they did was put slimy cucumber slices on your eyes and cold oatmeal on your face, but of course everybody loved the spa anyway because it was Amber’s.) The experience had done nothing to improve Cass’s opinion of spas; lying around being pampered when you could be training for an emergency was the opposite of everything Cass stood for.
It figured that someone like Ms. Mauvais would have a spa.
On the plus side, if her spa existed, Cass knew just where to find information about it. She had fifty minutes to get home and back before her next class. She would have to run—and hope that no one saw her.
After a week away, she was so unused to entering her house that she forgot the alarm code; she only remembered to punch in her birth date when the alarm started to sound. The curtains were closed and the house was dark, and Cass—feeling more and more like a thief—decided to leave it that way. If the neighbors saw the house lit up, they might ask questions. For a second, she thought of Max-Ernest. Had a friend been with her, she might not have felt so uneasy. But she pushed the thought away. It was better working on her own, she reminded herself. That was the whole point of being a survivalist.
Her mother’s obsession with travel guides had always mystified Cass, but she was grateful for it now. She pulled book after book from her mother’s shelves, until she had a mountain of them—all about spas. Then she sat on the floor flipping through the books one after another. They had titles like Spaaaaahhh! and Get Wet!, and they were filled with pictures of sunsets, and bubbling Jacuzzis, and smiling grown-ups wrapped in towels and getting massages. Cass thought all the spas looked alike, but, apparently, to her mother, each spa was different from every other. Her mother’s notes were scrawled across the pages: ”Looks like a dream!” “Too much $$$!” “Where’s the beach??” Next to one resort her mother had written: ”Take Cass next X-mas as surprise?” Quickly, Cass turned the page so she wouldn’t be tempted to read the entry.
By the time she got through the pile, Cass figured she must have read about every spa in the country but she still hadn’t seen a reference to the Midnight Sun. She’d already started the laborious process of re-shelving when she noticed an old, battered guidebook that had slipped behind the others. The front cover of the book had fallen off, revealing the first, yellowing page of the introduction, and...what was that word?
As it turned out, the word that had caught her eye was sanitarium (a sanitarium, she learned, is where they used to send people who had tuberculosis or were mentally ill). The introduction also mentioned solariums (glass rooms in which people bathed in the sun, back in the old days before their mothers worried about skin cancer) but not a single sensorium.
In the end, however, luck was with her. Buried inside the book Cass discovered an entry about the Midnight Sun. Here is what it said:

AH, TO BE YOUNG AGAIN!
It is the oldest quest on Earth.
The thirst that can never be satisfied.
The battle that can never be won.
Or can it?
The Midnight Sun Sensorium and Spa
promises nothing less.
Created over a hundred years ago by a select group of doctors and spiritualists, the Midnight Sun is one of the most exclusive—and most mysterious—resorts in the world.
Like the mythical Shangri-la, this magical mountaintop utopia has given rise to many rumors. Some say that guests of the Midnight Sun soak in baths of molten gold. Others that they drink the blood of newborn monkeys. Still others dismiss the Midnight Sun as a scam and a fraud.
Science? Medicine? Witchcraft? Who knows...Their treatments are closely guarded secrets. No one speaks about the Midnight Sun in public if he or she hopes ever to visit again.
Intrigued?
Unless you’re a celebrity, or you have a royal title next to your name, it’s nearly impossible to get a reservation at this secret sanctuary. But those brave enough to try can call (XXX) XXX XXXX. Or write XXXX Xxxxxx Xxxxxx, Xxx Xxxxxxx,XX XXXXX.

Cass put the book in her backpack, mulling over what she’d read. Why did so many grown-ups want to be young, she wondered, when it took so long to grow old? It was like going on a million-mile road trip then wanting to turn around without getting out of the car.
Still, she’d seen enough commercials to know old people would do anything to look younger. OK, maybe not a bath of molten gold—it would be so hot, you’d burn up. But she didn’t doubt that Ms. Mauvais would drink monkey blood, given the chance.
Now Cass had the address of the Midnight Sun. But what to do with it? That was the question she asked herself as she ran back to school.
She couldn’t just give it to Mrs. Johnson. Not after their last conversation. If Max-Ernest didn’t believe her theory about Benjamin’s kidnapping, Mrs. Johnson never would.
Cass thought about writing an anonymous note—like a tip-off from a concerned citizen. But then she had a better idea: a ransom note. Anybody could write an anonymous note, she reasoned; a ransom note would really get Mrs. Johnson’s attention. And Cass knew from detective books and television shows that the police used ransom notes to track down bad guys. With any luck, Mrs. Johnson would send them to save Benjamin as soon as she read it.
Below is Cass’s note. Naturally, Cass was careful to disguise her handwriting. Also, she tried to be very polite because she was writing to Mrs. Johnson, the principal with principles:

Dear Mrs. Johnson,
Good day.
We have kidnapped the artist Benjamin Blake. Please bring one million dollars to the Midnight Sun Sensorium and Spa and leave it in a suitcase for us. Or else Benjamin Blake will be killed in a really terrible way!
Sincerely,
Dr. L and Ms. Movay
P.S. The address of the Midnight Sun is XXXX Xxxxxx Xxxxxx, Xxx Xxxxxxx, XX XXXXX.

It couldn’t have gone worse.
Five minutes after she slipped the note through Mrs. Johnson’s window Cass was summoned to her office.
Mrs. Johnson was holding the note in her hand. In all Cass’s run-ins with the principal she had never seen the principal so angry.
“I am extremely upset with you, Cassandra,” she said. “Did you think I wouldn’t recognize your handiwork? I can’t believe you would continue your childish pranks knowing one of your peers is missing and very possibly in grave danger.”
“But they really did—they had a limousine with Midnight Sun on it and I saw a boy in the window!”
“And you know for certain it was Benjamin? Tell the truth.”
More than anything, Cass wanted to say she did, but Mrs. Johnson saw the hesitation on her face.
“I don’t know what you have against that couple, but I’m warning you, if I hear you are troubling any faculty or students—or, heaven forbid, the police—with your outlandish theories, well, I’ll suspend you for the whole year! Am I understood?”
Cass nodded.
“I must admit, this is one of the most politely written ransom notes I’ve ever received. At least your manners are getting better. Now, out of my office!”
On the bus later that afternoon, Cass sat with her knees doubled up against the seat back in front of her, ignoring everyone and everything in her vicinity.
She had to rescue Benjamin Blake. But how?
Not with any help from principals or policemen.
And definitely not with any help from a certain nonstop talking boy.
The obvious step was to go to the Midnight Sun herself. But how would she get there? No way would her grandfathers take her. Not if it meant her skipping school and their risking the wrath of her mother.
Besides, even if she could get to the Midnight Sun, how would she get into the Midnight Sun? She wasn’t a celebrity and she didn’t have a royal title; she was just a kid. And kids didn’t usually go to spas.
Except maybe for kids like Amber.
What would Amber do if she wanted to get in?
When Cass got off the bus, she had an inspiration.
Before she could change her mind, she pulled the old guidebook out of her backpack, and looked up the Midnight Sun’s phone number. Then she dialed it on her cell phone. She could hardly believe what she was doing, and she had that giddy, dizzy feeling you get when you make a crank call—only this was much scarier.
To her relief, a machine picked up. “You have reached the Midnight Sun Sensorium and Spa,” said an unmistakable, icy voice. “Please leave a message if you are ready to say good-bye to the old you, and hello to the new.”
Cass shuddered, remembering what the magician had written about Ms. Mauvais making him feel as if he were drowning in the coldest water on Earth. Cass might not be synesthetic but she knew exactly what he was talking about.
“Hello. This is...this is one of the Skelton Sisters. I’d like to make a reservation to stay at the Midnight Sun.”
She left her number. Then she dropped the phone onto the floor, wondering whether Max-Ernest wasn’t right, after all. Maybe she was crazy.
It took her a couple seconds to realize her phone was ringing.
Holding her breath, she picked up the phone and held it several inches away from her ear as if it were a particularly lethal kind of snake.
“Hello,” Ms. Mauvais tinkled on the other end. “How wonderful to hear from a Skelton Sister! To whom am I speaking, may I ask? Romi or Montana?”
“Um, neither,” said Cass, thinking quickly. “I’m the other one.”
“Oh, there’s another? I had no idea.”
“Yes, my name is Amber. I’m the youngest. They keep me hidden. But I’m famous also,” Cass explained. (She was glad she’d practiced lying on her mother.)
“Oh, you’re one of those secret celebrities? My favorite kind. Being in the public eye is so tiresome, don’t you think?” Ms. Mauvais inquired.
“Yes. That’s why I want to stay at the Midnight Sun. I hear it’s very private. And all your treatments—I hear they’re all really great. I know it’s hard to get a reservation. But I thought maybe since I’m a celebrity—”
“You seem to know a lot about it,” said Ms. Mauvais with a light laugh.
“Yeah, I do,” said Cass, not about to admit that that was all she knew.
“Well, you’re in luck. It just so happens we have an opening this evening. Shall I send the limousine for you?”
“Um, yeah, I guess,” Cass said, choking on her words. “That would be good.”
“Terrific. I’m sure you’ll love all of our treatments.”
Cass shivered. The way Ms. Mauvais said the word “treatments,” it sounded more like “punishments.”

Chapter Seventeen
I've Changed My Mind

Or maybe I should say I’ve come to my senses.
Rather than continuing to narrate the adventures of Cass and Max-Ernest, I’m going to end this book here—while they’re still safe.
More importantly, while you’re still safe.
I know, you’re angry with me. You’ve read this far—you feel you’ve earned the right to know how the story ends.
Go ahead: laugh, scream, cry, throw the book at the wall.
If you knew—well, there’s the rub, you don’t know, do you? If you knew the truth, I was going to say, if you knew everything this story entails, all those grizzly, gruesome facts, all those horrible, harrowing details, you’d thank me for sparing you.
Alas, since you don’t know, you will go to your grave hating me, thinking I am your enemy—when, for the first time, I am acting like a friend.
Happily, you don’t know how to find me. If you did, I’ve no doubt, you would try to bribe me to finish the story. I know how you are. I know how I am, too. I am very susceptible to bribes. As you’ve probably noticed, I have no self-control whatsoever.
I like chocolate best. But I also have a fondness for cheese.
If, for instance, you were to pass under my nose a very ripe brie—you might think the brie was gross and stinky, but you would be wrong, oh so wrong—and you tempted me with a bite, only to tell me that the price of the bite was my continuing the story, well, I’m afraid I might start writing without a moment’s thought. Now, if you were to hand me, say, a piece of chocolate, dark as night, European in origin, with a very high percentage of cocoa—don’t forget that high percentage of cocoa—well, there’s no saying what I would do. Or wouldn’t.
As a matter of fact, it just so happens that I’ve been saving for a special occasion a piece of chocolate very much like the one I just described. Right now, it’s sitting high up on a shelf that I can’t reach without a ladder. I put it there so I wouldn’t eat it without first fully considering the matter. I must admit, I’ve never wanted it more than I do now.
The chocolate on my shelf is of the finest quality. I won’t mention the brand here; that’s the kind of information that could help my enemies track me down. Trust me, though, it’s not cheap. Many cacao beans have given their lives to make that chocolate. I can practically taste it now.
Hmmm, what must I do in order to eat it?
It would be wrong to eat the chocolate without offering you something in return. I’m not the kind of person who accepts a bribe and then pretends he doesn’t know what the bribe means. Where’s the honor in that?
In short, if I want to eat the chocolate, I must keep writing.
What an awful, awful choice! On the one side: I renounce the chocolate, stay healthy and trim, and put an end to this reckless tale-telling. On the other side: I climb up the ladder, feast on chocolate, and then, full of sugar and guilt, I continue my story, knowing I’m possibly sentencing you to a fate worse than death.
Actually, put like that, the choice is pretty easy.
I’ll be right back.


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
IT WAS A DARK AND STORMY NIGHT

Really, it was. Dark and stormy.
As if the weather itself had conspired to turn our tale into a ghost story.
Or as if—and this seems slightly more plausible—Ms. Mauvais somehow controlled the skies and was using them to obscure the events of the evening.
In any case, the weather makes my job easier. It creates the proper mood. And it eliminates the need to hide certain facts. Like the location of the street corner on which Cass was waiting. With all the rain, you could hardly have seen her anyway.
For Cass, sadly, the weather didn’t make things any easier, only wetter. And colder. Teeth chattering, she stood under a street lamp, clutching her backpack to her chest for warmth. Not that it was much help; the backpack was no drier than her clothing.
It had been difficult figuring out what to wear.
After her phone conversation with Ms. Mauvais, Cass had gone back home again, and rifled through her mother’s closets; she even tried on a dress for the first time in over a year. But despite her recent growth spurt, she still looked like she was playing dress-up when she put on her mother’s clothes. She’d also considered borrowing Amber’s “Honorary Skelton Sister” T-shirt, but she couldn’t bring herself to call and ask for it. Plus, Cass realized, a real Skelton Sister probably wouldn’t wear the T-shirt anyway.
Finally, she chose to wear her usual jeans and sweatshirt, but she modified the outfit with a pair of furry boots her mother had bought for one of their never-taken ski trips. They didn’t look exactly like the fuzzy boots that Amber and her friends wore but they were close enough. (I know, at the beginning of this book, I told you Cass would never wear boots like those; I was forgetting she might wear them as part of a disguise.)
Now, she regretted the boots. Not only were they too big, they were soaked through. Her feet sloshed around in them, and they splattered when she walked. She felt like Bigfoot.
Her other new accessory was equally impractical for the weather: a pair of sunglasses. But even Cass knew that celebrities wore sunglasses all the time, indoors as well as out. Also, they helped disguise her face—which, presumably, is why celebrities wear them. (Had Cass asked me, I would have told her what I always tell people who are trying to go incognito: lose the shades. They only make you look more conspicuous.) Cass felt certain that neither Ms. Mauvais nor Dr. L would recognize her—they had seen her face for only a second—but it was best to be careful.
Her backpack, it goes without saying, she never considered leaving. Never mind whether a Skelton Sister would have worn it or not.
Cass thought wistfully about the hot pot of tea that Grandpa Larry would undoubtedly be making on a rainy night like this one. She wished she’d stopped at the fire station for a cup before heading out to meet the Midnight Sun limousine. Instead, she’d phoned her grandfathers and told them she was staying overnight at Max-Ernest’s house to work on their volcano experiment (for which the due date kept being conveniently postponed). She slept there all the time, she added. And her mother had already spoken to Max-Ernest’s parents, so there was no reason to ask her mother’s permission.
Her grandfathers had asked a few questions and demanded Max-Ernest’s phone number, but they were still feeling so guilty for making her upset about the Symphony of Smells that they hadn’t given her much trouble. The hardest part was having to listen to Grandpa Larry and Grandpa Wayne argue about whether she should make her volcano erupt with Alka-Seltzer or dry ice.
“You trust me, right?” Cass had asked. (She felt a little guilty herself playing on their guilt, but she needed to get them off the phone.)
“Of course we do!” they assured her.
Then she had called her mother and told her pretty much the same thing—except to her mother she said it was her grandfathers who had spoken to Max-Ernest’s parents, so there was no reason to phone them. “And don’t call me at nine tonight, OK?” Cass added. “Max-Ernest and I are going to be working.”
“Just don’t stay up too late,” said her mother. “All right, Cass?”
“Uh huh.”
“Promise?”
“Uh huh.”
“I’m sorry, I didn’t catch that.”
“Yes, Mom!”
“Yes, what?”
“Yes, I promise!”
“OK, I love you.”
“Me, too.”
“Me, too, what?”
“I love you, too! Sheesh!”
Although she and Max-Ernest weren’t collaborators anymore, and it was sort of cheating to ask for his help, Cass had had no choice but to call him, too; she had to warn him that he might hear from her grandfathers, or even from her mom.
She’d been very businesslike with Max-Ernest, she thought. She told him where she’d hidden the magician’s notebook and she gave him all the information she had about the Midnight Sun. And she didn’t say anything about his abandoning their mission or being a coward and a traitor. (Somehow, with all the activity, she’d forgotten that she’d been the one to end their partnership.) He didn’t say much at all, for a change, which was fine with her. Hopefully, he would be able to play it off like she was staying with him—at least until the morning.
Then, well, everyone would start looking for her—probably. But would it be too late?
She didn’t see the limousine until it splashed to a stop in front of her, glistening with raindrops.
As Cass waited, the driver got out and walked toward her, heedless of the storm. The driver was big and tall and shadowed in darkness—save for a pair of white gloves, gleaming in the night. Was it Dr. L?
Every instinct Cass had told her to run. But something that was not quite bravery and not quite fear and not quite the knowledge of Benjamin’s plight kept her rooted to the spot.
“Miss Skelton?”
The voice was gruff but not as deep as Cass expected.
“Yeah, that’s me,” said Cass as forcefully as she could.
“I’m Daisy.”
Daisy stepped into the light, revealing a decidedly un-flower-like but indisputably female face. Without another word, she opened the limousine’s back door and beckoned Cass inside with a gloved hand.
Reminding herself she was a celebrity, and not the type of person to be intimidated by a limousine driver (even if that driver was the tallest woman she’d ever seen), Cass held her head high and climbed in as confidently as if she rode in limousines every day and Daisy were her own personal chauffeur.
Only after she’d settled into her plush velvet seat did Cass notice how violently her hands were shaking. She had to sit on them to get them to stop.
Hours passed in silence, Cass barely able to see out of the foggy windows. Generally, she could tell they were heading upward, but the limousine made so many turns that she lost all sense of direction. Too late, she thought of Hansel and Gretel and how you’re supposed to leave a trail of crumbs when you journey into a forest.
If nobody came for her, how would she find her way back?
She told herself to stay calm, but doubts kept creeping into her head. Previously, she’d been so focused on getting into the Midnight Sun that she hadn’t stopped to think what she would do once she got inside. Now that she appeared really to be on her way she wondered how she would find Benjamin—and how she would get him out.
In the back of her mind lurked other, darker questions: Why had Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais taken Benjamin? What did they want him for?
What had happened to the magician’s brother, Luciano? Would she find him, too, still a prisoner after so much time? He would be an old man by now, his circus days long gone....
And what about the magician, Pietro, himself? What was the terrible secret he had discovered? Was she strong enough to face it if she had to?
Suddenly, the limousine rounded a turn and broke through the clouds.
Cass wiped the fog off the window next to her and looked outside. The sky above was now clear and starry—suggestive no longer of ghost stories but rather of science fiction and space travel. A perfect sky for spotting comets or for studying the constellations if only Cass had had the time and inclination. (Unfortunately, she had neither.) Cass couldn’t tell much about their location except that they were near the top of a mountain. Below them, a vast white blanket of clouds, illuminated by the moon, spread out as far she could see.
The limousine made another sharp turn, then descended into a small, hidden valley.
“Look—” Daisy commanded, breaking the silence.
Only then did Cass become aware of the warm glow suffusing the landscape around them. Craning her neck, she could just make out the source of the glow: an intense golden light peeking over the edge of the mountains. It looked like a sunrise, but it couldn’t have been; the time was just before midnight.
“There it is,” said Daisy. “The Midnight Sun.”

CHAPTER NINETEEN
The MIDNIGHT SUN

I hope it’s not giving away too much to tell you that, only two days later, the Midnight Sun would be devoured by fire. How and why it was set on fire, and who, if anyone, was burned to a crisp, and whether or not the smell of sulfur was in the air—these are questions that will have to wait. In the meantime, the Midnight Sun’s fiery fate frees me to describe it in detail. Because it is gone, you can no longer find it, no matter how good your information.
So many subjects you study in school prove unnecessary in life: for math, there is always a calculator. For English, there is always spell-check. For history, there is always the encyclopedia. Why should you hold so much knowledge in your head when it is stored right in front of you?
But there is one subject that comes in handy time after time.
I am thinking, of course, about Egyptology.
To name just one example: a thorough understanding of the mummification process is indispensable whether you are dispatching an enemy or preserving a friend or simply bandaging a head injury.
More to the point: if you are familiar with the layout of temples from Egypt’s Middle Kingdom (roughly 2000–1600 BC), then you already have a sense of what the Midnight Sun looked like. In particular, the spa was an almost exact replica of a little-known temple to the Egyptian god Thoth—a temple built over the grave of an unnamed pharaoh and accessible only by a three-day camel ride through the desert.
Cass was sadly ignorant of the finer points of Egyptian architecture. She knew enough, though, to recognize a pyramid when she saw one. Passing through the Midnight Sun’s massive gates, she was temporarily blinded by the blazing light, but once her eyes adjusted she could see a midsize (by Egyptian standards) pyramid standing in the precise center of the spa grounds.
Perched on top of the pyramid was something that would have astonished even the most seasoned Egyptian explorer. It was a lantern, but much more than a lantern. A perfect orb, it resembled nothing so much as a rising sun. Inside, fire danced every which way, as if fueled not by electricity or gas but rather by some unknown, supernatural source. Although the fire appeared gold at first glance, a longer look revealed a kaleidoscope of colors in the flames.
It was this lantern that Cass had seen earlier peeking over the mountains. Now, as the limousine door was opened for her, the lantern was so close she had to shield her eyes despite the fact that she was wearing sunglasses. Had she had a sudden change of heart and decided to make a run for it, the glare would have dissuaded her. Anyone in the vicinity could be seen as clearly as if a spotlight were shining directly upon her.
It’s just like a prison, Cass thought.
A large gloved hand helped her out of the vehicle. She assumed the hand belonged to Daisy, until she looked up and saw Dr. L’s too-handsome face smiling down at her, his silver hair glowing unnaturally in the light of the lantern.
She stifled a gasp, squeezing her backpack tight in her arms. This was the moment of truth: would he recognize her?
“Miss Skelton, welcome to the Midnight Sun. I am Dr. L,” he said smoothly, just as if he were meeting her for the very first time. “Ms. Mauvais regrets she cannot greet you herself—she keeps to a very strict bedtime. But she’s asked me to extend you every courtesy in her place.”
Cass nodded, too overwhelmed to speak. The light was making her dizzy. Or was it nerves? Behind her, the limousine quietly pulled away; there was no going back.
“I know, it’s bright here, but you’ll get used to it,” said Dr. L, tilting his head in the direction of the pyramid. “That lantern was brought by ship from Egypt many years ago, but the flame inside had already been burning for thousands of years before that. Legend has it, it started when a fireball fell from the sun.”
“Like a meteor?” Cass managed to ask.
“Exactly. Because the flame never dies, we call it the Midnight Sun—it’s like a sun that never sets. But you must be very tired.”
He gestured toward a freckle-faced young man in a white tunic—and yet another pair of white gloves—standing silently next to a stone table. “This is Owen, your personal butler. He will escort you to your room.”
“N-nice to m-meet you,” Owen stuttered. He smiled shyly.
Cass breathed a silent sigh of relief. Owen, at least, was not very intimidating.
“But first, a small formality,” said Dr. L. (His identifiably unidentifiable accent was especially strong when he pronounced the word formality.)
“Do you need me to pay?” asked Cass, ready to hand over the credit card her mother had given her.
Dr. L chuckled. “We’ll worry about that later. It’s just that we have to look through all our guests’ baggage when they arrive.”
“You want to look in my backpack?” Cass asked, alarmed.
“The Midnight Sun is a place of healing, and we insist that nothing contaminate the atmosphere. Sugar. Junk food. Firearms. That sort of thing.”
Cass reluctantly handed her backpack to Owen, who started removing items for Dr. L’s inspection. Cass hoped desperately that nothing would reveal who she was.
“I see you’ve come prepared,” said Dr. L drily as Owen held up Cass’s flashlight and binoculars and other survivalist gear. “What’s that? A space blanket? I think you’ll find the bedding here is quite ample, but of course one never knows.... I must say, you seem a much more independent sort than your sisters.”
“My sisters? I mean, you know them?” Cass corrected herself, flustered.
“Certainly. They’ve been here several times. Ms. Mauvais is very fond of them. But you must know that.” He smiled blandly.
“Yeah, I knew that,” said Cass quickly, her palms sweating. “That’s why I’m here.”
“Normally, we don’t encourage our guests to bring camping equipment, but we’ll make an exception tonight.” He nodded for Owen to return the backpack.
“However, I’m afraid I will have to ask for your cell phone,” Dr. L added. “Hopefully, you’ll appreciate the opportunity for silence and meditation.”
Cass froze. She’d always hated silence and meditation, but that wasn’t the problem. Her phone was the only thing linking her to the outside. If the worst should happen, she might at least use it to send her mother a message. Or a picture of herself waving good-bye.
Cass was about to say she hadn’t brought a phone with her, but then she thought better of it. What self-respecting Skelton Sister would leave home without one? The danger of blowing her cover was too great to risk.
She reached into her pocket and handed over her phone. Good-bye, she thought. Although whether she was addressing the phone or her mother or the whole world she couldn’t have said.
As Owen led her to her room, Cass tried to forget her fears and to concentrate on her surroundings. The Midnight Sun, she saw, spread out from the pyramid in a series of concentric circles: a wide reflecting pool dotted with lily pads and lotus blossoms surrounded the pyramid; a courtyard at least an acre in size and paved in sandstone surrounded the reflecting pool; and a series of low, stone buildings fronted by columns surrounded the courtyard. Flowering vines—jasmine, honeysuckle, and other more exotic varieties—crept up the columns, filling the air with their scent, and making the Midnight Sun seem all the more ancient, beautiful, and secret.*
While the lantern on the pyramid created the effect almost of daylight, the whole of the Midnight Sun seemed to be asleep; it was like coming across a remote village in the midafternoon and finding the inhabitants had all fallen under a spell. Behind one of these doors, Cass thought, Benjamin was being kept prisoner. Or would they keep him underground in some kind of labyrinth or dungeon? Perhaps he was underneath her feet at that very moment. Cass imagined a dark corridor lined with prison cells, Benjamin and Luciano and all the other children stolen by Ms. Mauvais grasping the steel bars, pleading for help.
Before she knew it, Cass was standing in her new room, and Owen was bidding her g-good night. “C-can I g-get you anything b-before I g-go?”
Needless to say, Cass had never had a butler before. She’d never even seen one before, except in the movies and on TV. Owen wasn’t anything like a movie butler. First, he didn’t wear a tuxedo. Second, he was too young. (Owen was that age that is older than a kid, but younger than a parent. Maybe the age of an uncle. Or of a half brother from your father’s first marriage. You know, that age.) Third, he didn’t have an English accent, or even speak properly. But that made it all the more difficult to know how to treat him.
“I don’t want anything,” said Cass, trying her best to sound like a bossy heiress. “Go away now.”
Immediately, she’d felt like she’d overdone it. If she was too rude, she might make an enemy of Owen. “I mean, if that’s OK,” she added in a friendlier tone. “My shoes are still wet, and I just want to get out of them.”
Owen didn’t seem to notice her tone, one way or the other. “You kn-know, in the old d-days, they m-made the g-guests here sleep in w-wet socks.”
“Wet socks? Why?” asked Cass, making a face.
“W-when you have c-cold f-feet, your b-blood circulates to w-warm them up. B-but they have other w-ways n-now,” he said darkly.
Before Cass could ask what he meant, he was out the door.
Moorish tiles, potted palms, a bed made to look like a Bedouin tent, and an arched window facing a pyramid—her room could have been a palace bedroom in Giza. At another time, in other circumstances, Cass might have loved staying in a room like this. Now she could only regard the room with dread. It was the first hotel room she’d ever stayed in; she couldn’t help fearing it would be the last.
She assured herself that her disguise was intact; if Dr. L had recognized her, he wouldn’t have welcomed her so courteously. But it was no use. She lay on the bed, tensing every time she heard a sound: in her imagination, the hum of a pool filter was the churning of molten gold, and the rustle of leaves signaled the presence of angry monkeys come back for their young.
Her idea was to wait in her room until everyone at the spa had gone to sleep; then she would sneak out and look for Benjamin. As the hours passed, she kept putting off the moment. Even after the pyramid’s lantern had finally begun to dim, she told herself to wait a little longer—just to be safe.
If you’ve ever slept anywhere other than your own home, then you know it’s often difficult to fall asleep in a strange bed; however, it’s equally difficult to stay awake after you’ve experienced one of the longest, scariest, and most exhausting days of your life.
Cass fell asleep.
She dreamed she was traveling in Egypt, searching for a fabled trove of buried gold.
A turbaned guide, who looked strangely like her butler Owen, led her into a massive, hulking pyramid. Inside, a dark tunnel coiled around and around, getting narrower and narrower, and going deeper and deeper underground. Cass had to stoop, then crawl, then slither on her stomach. She had trouble breathing. She wanted to turn around but she couldn’t. She felt claustrophobic. She was afraid she would suffocate.
Then, finally, she saw it glittering in front of her. Two spans of gold creating a giant M.
The Golden Arches.
The pyramid’s innermost chamber was... an underground McDonald’s?
She tried telling her guide, no, this wasn’t right. She didn’t want to go to McDonald’s. In order to make their hamburgers, McDonald’s raised and slaughtered so many cows that they became diseased and land was destroyed. Land that should have been used to grow grain and feed hungry people. It was an environmental emergency. There was so much cow dung that the methane gases from the dung made the air smoggy. She knew all about it from a documentary she saw with her mom.
If he’d just give her back her cell phone—
If she could just call her mom—
If only—
Please, let me out—
Please—
But Owen, I mean her butler, I mean her guide, wouldn’t listen.
The magic word had lost its power.

CHAPTER TWENTY 
and now back to Max-Ernest...

The last doctor Max-Ernest consulted, the one who analyzed Cass’s survivalist tendencies, had a theory about Max-Ernest as well: the theory was that Max-Ernest talked about things in order to avoid having feelings about them.
The doctor told Max-Ernest he should practice having feelings. (This may sound silly, but for some people it’s very difficult; I myself haven’t had a good, solid feeling in years.) As a beginning, the doctor suggested, Max-Ernest might try naming his feelings as soon as he noticed them. Then, instead of shooing them away, Max-Ernest might try sitting with his feelings for a while.
At first, Max-Ernest had been confused about the doctor’s suggestions; all the naming and shooing made him think the doctor was talking about household pets rather than human emotions. After speaking to Cass and learning about her trip to the spa, however, he decided to take the doctor’s advice.
Eyes closed, he sat on the floor trying to identify his feelings. He counted at least five (not to mention the fact that he was already mad at Cass to begin with, which made six):

He was impressed by the boldness of her plan.
He was hurt that she hadn’t included him.
He was annoyed that he had to lie for her anyway.
He was jealous that she would get to have all the excitement.
And he was worried that Ms. Mauvais would discover who Cass really was.

“I know we’re not collaborators anymore, but I wanted someone to know I was going to the Midnight Sun—in case they figure out who I am and I never come back,” Cass had said, by way of explaining her call. “If they kill me or something, tell my mom not to get mad at my grandfathers. They don’t know I’m going. So it’s not their fault if I die.”
Only after mulling over the conversation for several hours did it occur to Max-Ernest that he now knew she was going to the Midnight Sun, and therefore if something happened to her it would be his fault.
He couldn’t tell whether that made him feel guilty for not doing anything to stop her or angry at Cass for putting him in a difficult position.
He thought about calling her back to tell her about all of his different feelings. Her phone number was right there on his phone. He could call her by hitting one button. But he didn’t.
He stared at the number, suddenly realizing what it meant: Cass’s number must have popped up on the spa’s phone, too.
Which meant Ms. Mauvais must have known it was Cassandra and not a Skelton Sister who had called.
And she had let Cass make the reservation under the Skelton name anyway.
It was a trap—it had to be.
Quickly, he called Cass’s number, but nobody answered.
He tried again.
And again.
When she still hadn’t answered after ten attempts at reaching her, Max-Ernest was overtaken by another emotion altogether: fear.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
the treatments

When Cass awoke, it was dawn.
She sat bolt upright in bed, furious with herself. A whole night had passed and she hadn’t even begun to search for Benjamin Blake!
Hurriedly, she slipped into her damp boots—she had slept in her clothes—and headed for the door. She only hoped she could get a good look around before the whole spa was awake.
Then she became aware of the polite but persistent tapping at the window. For a second, she had the wildly hopeful thought that it might be Benjamin himself, trying to contact her in secret.
But it was only her butler.
Owen entered, bowing slightly and carrying a tray that held a tall glass of bright green, bubbling liquid.
He wished Cass—or rather M-Miss Skelton, as he continued to call her—a g-good m-morning, and put the tray down on a table in front of her.
“What’s that?” asked Cass. “A smoothie?”
“It’s an e-l-lixir. M-ms. M-mauvais has one b-brewed specially for each g-guest. I d-don’t know why you g-got em-m-merald. Your sisters always g-get p-pink.”
This time, Cass didn’t flinch at the mention of her supposed sisters. Instead, she busied herself studying her drink. Shiny specks swirled in the bubbles. “Is that gold?” she asked.
Owen nodded. “M-ms. M-mauvais says g-gold promotes l-long l-life. It n-never t-tarnishes.”
The last thing Cass wanted to do was drink something brewed specially by Ms. Mauvais, but Owen was watching. So she took a tentative sip. The elixir had a zesty, zingy, zippy sort of flavor, and it gave her a bit of a head rush. She thought she detected a faint metallic taste, but she wasn’t sure it was the gold.
At any rate, the elixir didn’t seem to be poison.
“W-would you l-like anything else f-for b-breakfast?”
Cass shook her head. She didn’t want him returning and interrupting her again.
“W-well, if you’re n-not hungry, it’s t-time for your f-first t-treatment,” he said. “There’s a b-bathrobe and b-bathing suit for you in the c-closet. I’ll w-wait r-right outside.”
Cass groaned inwardly. This wasn’t good at all. How could she investigate if he was waiting outside her door? Besides, she’d been hoping to avoid the treatments. Even if they didn’t really involve molten gold or monkey blood.
She had to think fast. “You know what, I changed my mind—do you have waffles?”
Owen nodded. “Whole-grain, g-gluten-free, d-dairy-free, or tra-d-ditional?”
“Traditional, I guess.”
“With l-lavender honey, n-natural tr-tree r-root sugar substitute, or V-vermont special r-reserve extra-v-virgin m-maple syrup?”
“Syrup. And lots of butter—already melted,” Cass said to cut him off before he offered any more toppings. “And no powdered sugar—not even a little,” she added automatically, because that was how she always ordered her waffles.
“No p-powdered sugar. C-coming r-ight up, M-miss Skelton.”
Owen bowed and left to go get her breakfast.
Cass leaned back on her pillow wondering whether she should call him back and add some eggs to her order. Or maybe a cup of hot chocolate.
Then she remembered she wasn’t really eating.
Funny how easy it is to get used to having a servant. Even for a survivalist.
After waiting two minutes, Cass let herself out of the room as quietly as she could. There was nobody in sight; it was an ideal time to search for Benjamin. Where should she start—the other guest rooms?
Before she had time to consider, Owen was rounding the corner.
“Ch-change your m-mind again, M-miss Skelton? I was j-just c-coming to see if you w-wanted w-wild straw-b-berries or or-g-ganic Ore-g-gon b-blue-b-berries. But if you w-want t-to skip the w-waffle and g-go straight t-to your treatments, your G-gold B-bath is r-ready.”
Her Gold Bath.
Owen said it with such nonchalance it couldn’t possibly be a lethal cauldron of molten gold. Or could it? Perhaps workers at the Midnight Sun were so used to seeing children boiled alive that they were completely blasé about it. (Are you familiar with the words nonchalant and blasé? They’re two of my favorite words in a crisis. If you don’t know them, I’d advise you to look them up now—but make sure you don’t appear too anxious when you do.)
Cass decided the wisest course was to pretend to go along with her butler, then to escape at the first opportunity.
“Yeah, I guess I’m not really hungry after all,” she said, trying to sound equally nonchalant (I told you to look it up!).
On the way, Owen warned her to respect the p-privacy of any p-people she encountered. “At the M-midnight Sun, g-guests only speak t-to each other at m-meals. M-ms. M-mauvais’s r-rules.”
He need not have warned her because she saw only a few guests, and then only at a distance. Still, she was close enough to get a general impression. Like Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais, like all the staff at the Midnight Sun, all the guests at the spa were tan and smooth and perfect-looking. Cass hated them on sight.
Oh, one other thing: they all wore gloves. Even the man swimming in the lap pool.
“Hey, Owen,” said Cass, still doing her best to act blasé (!). “What are those gloves for? Why’s everyone wearing them?”
But Owen didn’t hear. At least he appeared not to. And she didn’t have the courage to ask a second time.
One mystery was cleared up right away: the Gold Bath was not a bath of molten gold, it was just a mud bath—with flecks of gold like Cass had found in her emerald elixir. Have you ever seen fool’s gold? The kind you find shifting around the sand in a riverbed? The gold in the Gold Bath looked like that.
While we’re on the subject: have you ever had a mud bath? You might find it disappointing. Cass did.
Cass had always imagined a mud bath to be smooth and creamy and chocolaty—like a bath by Willy Wonka. Instead, the mud in her mud bath was more like sludge. It was bumpy and scratchy and gloppy and full of tiny things you couldn’t identify that got inside places you didn’t want them to. Worse, every once in a while, a big burping bubble would float up from the bottom and fill the air with a gaseous stink. By the time she got out, she was so relieved to be done with the mud bath that she almost didn’t care that Owen had showed up again, once more preventing her from hunting for Benjamin.
He promised that the next few treatments would be less messy, and considerably more pleasant. Each of them, he explained, was designed to stimulate one of the five senses.
“Is that why they call it a sensorium?”
Owen nodded. “M-ms. M-mauvais says the g-goal is to b-bring the s-senses b-back into har-m-mo-n-ny with each-ch-ch other.”
“You mean like synesthesia?” Cass asked, before realizing she might be giving herself away. (After all, how many kids had heard of synesthesia?)
Owen looked at her in surprise. “Yeah, that’s r-right,” he said.
He led her into a large airy room with a domed ceiling of cut glass through which light refracted in an ever-changing pattern of rainbows. Cass, remembering her mother’s guidebook, thought she recognized the room as a solarium. She didn’t ask this time, however, not wanting to attract more suspicion than she already had.* Instead, she obediently lay facedown on a padded table, sticking her nose through a hole apparently designed for the purpose. Above, she could feel the warm sunlight streaming through the glass—although she wasn’t sure whether she was feeling the real sun, or the Midnight Sun, or both. A faint breeze ruffled the long, gauzy silk banners that had been hung from the ceiling to provide privacy. She felt almost as if she were outside—yet nowhere on Earth.
A team of nearly a dozen women in white flocked silently around her, sailing in and out, disappearing behind the silk banners only to reappear seconds later holding new crystals and chimes, oils and unguents. They traipsed around the room releasing scents (Cass, who had practiced with the Symphony of Smells, identified pine, orange blossom, lavender, and even shiitake mushroom). Then they circled, making eerie sounds with small gongs and tuning forks (someone called the sound vibrations “acupuncture without needles,” and indeed Cass felt a prickling on her skin; but she wasn’t sure whether the vibrations or her own anxiety had caused it).
After scent and sound came touch.
Eyes closed, Cass became aware of new sensations at all ends of her body: they scratched her scalp and they scraped the bottoms of her feet. They dug into her palms and they pulled on her fingers. They massaged her temples and patted her cheeks. They tugged on her earlobes and they wiggled her nose. They spiraled her arms and shook out her legs. They rotated her ankles and cracked her toe knuckles. They pushed and prodded and rubbed and rolled. Until she lost track of who was who and what was what and where was where.
Cass was hovering on the brink of unconsciousness when she heard Dr. L speaking from somewhere behind her.
“Hello, Miss Skelton. I hope you’re enjoying your treatments,” he said in his distinctively indistinctive voice. “No, please don’t open your eyes. Instead, allow me to suggest some images to you. Many patients feel it helps them to relax....”
Cass could feel him coming closer; it was excruciating, like an itch. She was aching to sit up, but she knew she had to lie still if she didn’t want him to suspect anything.
He began murmuring in Cass’s ear. “Think of the light of the Midnight Sun shining on your back.... It’s warm...bright...welcoming.... Can you feel it...? Good... Now imagine yourself floating slowly toward the light.... You’re like a speck of dust in a sunbeam.... That’s right, just floating... softly floating....”
Cass told herself not to listen; the important thing was to stay alert. But there was something so lulling about Dr. L’s voice. His words slipped into her consciousness without a ripple, as if they were her own thoughts.
“All those worries you carry with you,” he continued, “let them all go.... Those fears about crimes and disasters and emergencies, they’re drifting away... they’re gone... gone.... You don’t need to prepare for anything here. We’re taking care of everything for you.... You’re safe. Perfectly safe. Let’s repeat that word, shall we? Safe... Safe... Safe...”
Cass found herself almost unwittingly repeating the word.
Safe... Safe... Safe...
“Good... Good... Now I’m going to ask you a question we ask all our patients, so we can better help them. And I want you to answer honestly and truthfully. Can you do that?”
Cass murmured her assent.
“Wonderful... The question is: Why are you really here?”

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
CAUGHT

Cass opened her eyes with a jolt. She was still on the massage table, but uncertain how much time had passed.
What happened? Had she been hypnotized?
What did she say to Dr. L? Had she told him who she was?
Alarmed, she pushed herself up and looked around. She seemed to be alone.
No, there was Owen, entering the room. How did he always know?
He greeted her as though nothing were different—she must not have given herself away, after all.
Cass was so relieved she almost laughed out loud.
By now, she had seen most of the spa—with one notable exception.
After Cass had dressed, she asked Owen what was inside the pyramid.
“N-nothing,” he answered quickly. “J-just a lot of r-rocks. I w-wouldn’t g-go in there.”
She shrugged agreeably. But of course his answer had only increased her curiosity. And this time, she vowed, she wouldn’t be so easily derailed.
Yawning, she told Owen that she was tired after all her treatments (which was true) and that she needed to rest (which was also true). She said she could find her way back to her room without him (true, too). Why didn’t he take a break now and check on her later? She was going to go take a short nap (false).
“I don’t know. I’m n-not really supposed to—”
“You’re my butler, right? Aren’t you supposed to do whatever I say?”
He nodded.
“Well, then, I’m ordering you to go relax.”
“B-but if I go relax, I won’t be around to follow your orders, will I?”
Cass looked at him to see if he was serious: he smiled.
They both laughed. And suddenly Cass felt she not only had a butler, she had a friend.
It was on the tip of her tongue to tell Owen why she was at the spa. Did he know about Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais? she wondered. Could he possibly be as evil as they? She didn’t think so, but she decided it was better not to risk saying anything.
The way back to her room was through the hot pools. So Cass went in that direction, in case Owen was watching. She figured she’d change course as soon as she was hidden by the steam.
Just as she was about to veer off toward the pyramid, she heard a loud sigh—and nearly slipped on the wet stone floor.
She peered down at the pool in front of her. A woman was floating on her back, her round pink face bobbing in and out of the bubbling water, as if she were simmering in a giant pot of soup.
It was Gloria Fortune, real estate agent for the dead.
What was she doing there?
Earlier, Cass had feared Gloria might have joined her clients in the afterlife; but, under the circumstances, stumbling upon her alive was almost more alarming than stumbling upon a corpse.
If Gloria recognized her, it would all be over.
Luckily, Gloria’s eyes were closed. Cass backed away as quickly and quietly as she could.
There was no time to lose. At any moment, Gloria might pop up again—this time with her eyes open—and identify Cass. She had to find Benjamin and get out of the spa right away.
The night before, the lamp on top of the pyramid had shined so brightly that it could have been daytime. Now, late in the afternoon, the lamp was dim, its flame a bare flicker; and the spa was in shadows—so dark it could have been evening. It was as if the spa existed in its own alternative time zone, in defiance of the laws of the physical universe.
The shadows allowed Cass to cross the open courtyard in relative safety. But when she reached the reflecting pool that surrounded the pyramid she had to step out in the open. The reflecting pool, she now realized, was no pool at all; it was a moat. And the drawbridge—it was standing upright, blocking the entrance to the pyramid.
Her only hope of getting inside was to find an underground passage. Where would the passage let out, Cass wondered, if there was one? From the back of the pyramid, she traced an imaginary line to the nearest building, and she marked the spot most likely to hide an entrance to the underground.
As it turned out, the building was one of the few Cass had not yet entered. Like the others, it was designed very simply around a single, central corridor that stretched from one end to the other; but here the atmosphere was subtly more luxurious. A long, narrow, richly embroidered rug, such as you might find in a throne room, lay atop the stone floor; intimidating to step on, it nonetheless allowed Cass to walk the length of the corridor in silence. She must have passed a half-dozen doors, all closed, and all painted a deep royal blue, before she saw the one she wanted. In contrast to the other doors, it was covered in gleaming gold leaf—and had been left ever so slightly ajar.
She put her ear against the door but didn’t hear anything.
Dare she? She had to. It was her only chance.
Cass cracked the door open—then stepped back in fright: the room behind the door was occupied by hundreds of people.
Or was it?
She looked again: the room was empty—save for hundreds of reflections of herself.
Nervously, she entered.
Mirrored panels covered all the walls as well as the ceiling, creating the illusion of an infinitely expanding space. Even the marble floor had been polished to a reflective sheen. A giant, octopuslike chandelier—Cass’s grandfathers would have identified it as Venetian glass—hung from the ceiling and was reflected in the many mirrors, so that it seemed to be replicating in all directions. A long, backless couch upholstered in golden silk—Cass’s grandfathers would have called it a daybed and noted that it was in the Napoleonic style—and a small desk plated in silver completed the picture.
Cass immediately recognized the room for it was: the private office of Ms. Mauvais. Cold but deceptively glamorous, like the woman herself. One could easily have imagined her sitting for hours on the daybed, gazing at herself in one mirror after the next after the next after the next....
Our young heroine, however, had no time for lingering. She tiptoed across the marble, examining it for telltale cracks or seams—she thought there might be a hatch door in the floor—until she found herself butting up against one of the mirrored panels, startled once more by her own reflection. Multiplied over and over, her ears seemed to grow larger and larger.
“Are you looking for me, Miss Skelton?”
A familiar chill descended on Cass as Ms. Mauvais’s reflection—make that reflections—appeared beside hers.
She was caught: what should she do? What could she do?
Slowly, Cass turned around. She half hoped she wouldn’t find anyone—that the blond, Barbie-esque woman in the mirror was nothing but a mirage. But she was all too real—and as fake as ever.
“I’m Ms. Mauvais. Forgive me for not introducing myself earlier. I trust the Midnight Sun is everything you hoped?”
Cass grimaced involuntarily, her heart thumping. She told herself to say something, say anything—but nothing came out.
“You know, I couldn’t help noticing the way you were looking at yourself a moment ago,” continued her hostess. “Of course, we do offer makeovers, but we thought you were more the natural type.... Here, let me see.”
She lifted Cass’s head with a gloved hand, and examined her young guest from all sides. “If you like, we can do something about it.”
“About what?” Cass asked, finally finding her voice.
“About your ears. We can fix them.”
“My ears?” Perhaps, Cass thought, if they talked about her ears, Ms. Mauvais wouldn’t question again why she was in her office.
“Yes, I thought they were bothering you. They do rather stick out—”
“What do you mean? How would you fix them?” Cass tried gently to pull her head away, but Ms. Mauvais wouldn’t let go.
“Among his many talents, Dr. L is a very gifted plastic surgeon—”
“You mean you would operate on them!?” Cass exclaimed in obvious horror, remembering too late that a Skelton Sister might have a different reaction to the prospect of plastic surgery.
“There’s only so much makeup can do,” observed Ms. Mauvais, at last releasing Cass’s head from her hands. “Don’t worry, he has a very light touch. He never leaves any scars. He’s an artist.... Here, what do you think of mine?”
She gathered up her blond hair and tilted her neck, exposing her ears for Cass to inspect.
“Every year he works on them. They’re like a sculpture that’s never quite finished. He says he won’t be done until I have the most exquisite ears in the world.”
The way she said this, Cass could tell Ms. Mauvais thought her ears were already something special. In truth, Cass couldn’t remember ever seeing any more perfect.
“Just think what he could do with a beautiful young girl like you.”
Should she have her ears worked on? Cass had never even considered it. But the idea of not being teased anymore was very appealing. And Ms. Mauvais made it sound so easy.
“Your mother doesn’t have ears like yours, does she? Wouldn’t you like to look more like her?”
“How do you know? You haven’t met her—have you?” Cass asked, momentarily unsure whether they were talking about the Skelton Sisters’ mother or her own.
“No, of course not,” Ms. Mauvais laughed. “I just thought—well she got married, didn’t she? And what man would marry a woman with ears like yours?”
Suddenly, Cass could feel herself burning with shame and anger and a deep sort of hatred. She was certain her ears had never been so red. But Ms. Mauvias appeared not to notice.
“Well, you don’t have to decide now. Come—” She grasped Cass by the arm, making it impossible for her to even think about looking for Benjamin. “It’s almost time for dinner. And we have a surprise guest this evening.”


CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
A Surprise Guest

Who was Ms. Mauvais’s surprise guest?
Take a guess.
I’ll give you a hint: it wasn’t Gloria. As a surprise she’d already been spoiled, anyway.
Here’s another idea: what if the surprise guest was a real Skelton Sister? It’s just plausible enough. After all, the Skelton Sisters had been to the Midnight Sun several times before. Or so Dr. L said.
The complications that ensued would no doubt be very entertaining. I can just imagine it now: Ms. Mauvais saying to Cass, “Look who’s here, it’s your sister!” Cass starting to say that she didn’t have a sister, then remembering who she was supposed to be. The real Skelton Sister acting confused, asking what this was all about.
Cass would have to think very fast to avoid being exposed as a fraud. She might claim that she was actually a half sister of the Skelton Sisters, and that she was kept secret even from them. Or she might claim that her sister really did know her, but that the sister had had an accident, and now suffered from amnesia.
Perhaps Cass would be so successful in her ruse that she would convince the Skelton Sister that they really were sisters. Now, that would be something!
Alas, Ms. Mauvais’s surprise guest was not a Skelton Sister. It was someone far less surprising—at least if you’ve been following the story.
Less surprising. But more gratifying, I hope.
An elaborate, castle-shaped tent had been erected for dinner. It held three rooms altogether; and not until Cass followed Ms. Mauvais all the way into the third did she see the spiky-haired boy sitting on a cushion in the corner.
Yes, you were right, the surprise guest was none other than Max-Ernest—and Cass, for one, felt extremely grateful when she saw him.
No longer angry at him, she was aware only of how lonely and scared she’d been since their partnership had ended. Had Ms. Mauvais not been standing nearby, Cass might have run and thrown her arms around her long-lost friend. (Well, knowing Cass, she wouldn’t throw her arms around Max-Ernest under any circumstances, but that was sort of how she felt.) As it was, she was afraid even to say hello. She didn’t want Ms. Mauvais to know she recognized him.
Max-Ernest, also, was uncharacteristically silent. As Cass settled onto the cushion next to his, he gave her one of those quick, intentionally fake smiles that look like they are made by fingers pulling on the sides of your mouth. He seemed nervous, but that was only to be expected, thought Cass.
What was he doing there, anyway? How did he get in?
Suddenly, Cass felt panic rising in her stomach like sickness.
“Surprised, Miss Skelton?—or should I say, Cassandra?” asked Ms. Mauvais.
“Who—who’s Cassandra?” she stammered.
“Oh, don’t be silly. Did you really think we were so easily fooled?” Ms. Mauvais said cheerfully. “I know, I should have said something when you called. But I didn’t want to scare you off. I’m afraid we got off on the wrong foot the first time we met. Please will you let me make it up to you now?”
Cass forced herself to nod. She could hardly sit up straight, she was so dizzy.
Ms. Mauvais smiled in delight—if you could call it a smile. (Her face barely moved but she showed a little more of her too-white teeth.) “Thank you for giving me a second chance! I so want us to be friends.”
Cass tried to smile back but she couldn’t. She was wondering whether she was going to puke.
“Good! Now, I’m going to go find the others,” said Ms. Mauvais. I’m sure you two have a lot of catching up to do.”
She placed her hand on Max-Ernest’s head, and ruffled his hair. “Have you ever seen such a handsome young man?” she asked. Then she leaned over and kissed Max-Ernest on the forehead. “I’ll be back in a second, darling, I promise.”
She walked away, leaving a lipstick mark on his face. And a look of total shock on Cass’s.
Before Cass could absorb the full awfulness of what she’d just witnessed, Max-Ernest started speaking in a rush. She’d never seen him so wound up.
“Don’t worry, she’s not my girlfriend or anything, that’s just the way she is—all kissy and stuff. It’s kind of embarrassing, but she’s really nice, once you get to know her. Seriously, I know you’re going to like her—she’s even nicer than Amber! Dr. L’s pretty nice, too. He says he’s going to cure my condition. They use an ancient Egyptian method. Technically, it’s a lobotomy but it’s nonsurgical. Instead of cutting your head open, they enter through your nose with a long straw. And since there’s no feeling in your brain, it’s practically painless! How ’bout that? Afterward, Ms. Mauvais’s going to take me to Paris—that’s where she’s from. I’m sure you could come, too, if I asked her—she’ll do anything I want. What do you think, do you want to go to Paris?”
Cass stared at him, not blinking. She thought perhaps she’d been drugged, and she was having an hallucination. That would explain the nausea.
Max-Ernest looked at her expectantly. “Well, aren’t you going to say anything?”
“Did they hypnotize you? Is that why you’re acting like this?” Cass asked, finally realizing that she was, alas, perfectly clearheaded. “’Cause I hope so, for your sake.”
“What do you mean? Acting like what?”
“Never mind,” Cass sighed. “How did you get here?”
“I made a reservation. Just like you.”
“You made a reservation?” Cass repeated. “And they just let you come? What did you tell them?”
Max-Ernest squirmed in his seat. “Well, nothing really, just—”
A horrible thought struck Cass. “Did you tell them you had the notebook?!”
“I still have it! I haven’t given it to them yet,” said Max-Ernest defensively. “But it doesn’t matter anyway. They’re not how you think they—”
“It doesn’t matter?! Have you totally forgotten about Pietro? About Luciano? About Benjamin?”
“C’mon, Cass. I know what you think, but think about it, have they done anything bad to you? I mean, since you’ve been here.”
“Well, no, not yet, but—”
“And they knew who you were all along, right?”
“Yeah, I guess—”
“See. How ’bout that? They’re not evil then, after all.... You know, it’s OK to be wrong sometimes. Everybody is. Even me.”
Cass shook her head. “Now, I know you were hypnotized!”
Before the matter could be resolved one way or the other, Gloria sailed into the tent, her round face beaming. (Notice I didn’t say she wouldn’t be at dinner—just that she wasn’t the surprise guest.)
“Cass!” cried the real estate agent. “Aren’t you going to say hello to your old friend, Gloria? Or don’t you recognize me? I know, I look twenty years younger, don’t I? And twenty pounds lighter!”
Gloria twirled around so she could be seen from all sides.
Cass nodded mutely. No doubt about it, Gloria was half the size she was before. More remarkable still was how friendly the real estate agent was acting. Cass wasn’t sure she hadn’t liked Gloria better in her earlier, meaner incarnation. Now she was harder to ignore.
“Isn’t this place just too, too fabu?” Gloria continued. “True, the Egyptian theme might be a little exotic for some. But the setting! As they say in my business—location, location, location! And the treatments! Heavenly! And don’t get me started on those elixirs. Have you ever tasted anything more delicious?”
She paused briefly for Cass to nod in agreement. Then went on:
“Remember that lucky day when we all met? Well, Dr. L gave me this itty-bitty one to drink afterward. And I was hooked. I wanted more the very next day. More, more, more! He said it was too early, but I wouldn’t take no for an answer. I followed him all the way to the spa to get it. And am I glad I did! They work miracles here—!”
“Miracles have very little to do with it, Ms. Fortun-e.”
It was Dr. L himself, joining them under the tent. He looked as cool and composed as ever—if a tad irritated by Gloria.
Gloria pouted like a chastened schoolgirl. “I’m sorry, Doctor. Your little Gloria is just so grateful for everything you’ve done. Everything you do—”
“Everything we do is here is based on science,” said Dr. L curtly. “Not perhaps what you think of as science. But the True Science. The One Science.”
“What kind of science is that?” asked Max-Ernest, who was under the impression that he already knew all the kinds of sciences that there were.
“The science of the essence. The science of which all others are part,” said Dr. L. “Everything on Earth springs from the same essential substance. Once you find it, anything is possible. Turning lead to gold. Old to young. Even turning frumpy real estate agents into beautiful women.”
Cass looked involuntarily at Gloria, but Gloria didn’t seem to register the insult—she was so smitten with Dr. L.
“How wonderful!” she said. “What’s this science called? Is it Egyptian?”
Ms. Mauvais, who had just reentered the tent, cleared her throat. “I believe our dinner is here,” she said.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR
DINNER

Even Cass, who was feeling slightly less sick, but all the more upset about the situation in which she found herself, had to admit the dinner table looked magnificent. It was covered with a cloth sewn entirely of crimson flower petals, each petal lush and perfect and not a bit bruised or ripped. On this luxurious crimson bed sat a dozen crystal candlesticks of varying heights as well as numerous glittering urns and platters of exotic, Oriental design. Each place setting came with a pair of gleaming golden chopsticks and ornate sets of silverware—tiny forks, oddly curved spoons, needle-like knives—that had the look of ancient surgical instruments.
On the whole, the table looked less like a dinner table than a shrine to some jealous and demanding god. This effect was only heightened when the kitchen staff began to bring in the food—so solemnly and silently they might have been making offerings in a temple rather than serving dinner.
Indeed, whenever a new dish appeared, Ms. Mauvais described it with an almost religious reverence.
“The base of this custard is the rendered cartilage of a tiny marsupial that lives under rocks on an island in the South Pacific,” she said of the first course, which arrived in individual thimble-size serving cups. “Excellent source of calcium. Also prized by fisherman for its waterproofing properties...I do hope you aren’t vegetarians.”
“The pale blue dust you see is pollen from a flower that blooms only at the elevation of eleven thousand feet and only after a very long winter,” she said about the topping on a roll that looked like a powdered donut but which was anything but sweet. “Some indigenous peoples believe it sharpens the intellect. Certainly, it is very helpful in clearing the sinuses.”
“Bear liver sautéed in codfish oil,” she announced when a particularly unattractive lump arrived in front of each diner. “A dish beloved by the Vikings. The reason they could survive so long in the cold. You may find it a little gamey.”
Before they ate any given dish, Cass and Max-Ernest were instructed to close their eyes and smell it. “Remember, what you experience as taste is mostly scent,” said Ms. Mauvais. “By itself, the tongue can only identify four flavors—or is it five?”
“Five,” replied Dr. L. “I believe scientists recently discovered a taste for fat.”
After smelling their food, they were to examine it closely from all angles, so as to appreciate any subtleties of color and shape.
“Should we listen to it, too?” asked Max-Ernest, who was clearly hanging on Ms. Mauvais’s every word.
“Well, that depends on whether your dish is making any noise, doesn’t it, sweetheart?” she responded. “Why don’t you give it a try?”
Obediently, Max-Ernest tilted his head toward his plate. Across the table, Cass rolled her eyes in disgust.
Despite her rapturous descriptions, Ms. Mauvais, Cass noticed, didn’t eat for most of the meal. She merely sipped from a tall glass of red wine—at least Cass assumed it was wine. It was the right color but it looked disturbingly thick.
The one dish Ms. Mauvais ate was the last. It consisted of a small quivering mass that pulsed intermittently like a heart. It was served only to her and she did not describe it like she had the others. Instead, she speared it suddenly and violently with a chopstick—then swallowed it whole.
As Ms. Mauvais sighed in satisfaction, Cass thought she detected a new vibrancy in her hostess’s pale white cheeks.
“I have a sensitive stomach,” Ms. Mauvais explained. “There are very few things I can eat. And they have to be very, very fresh.”
After their plates had been cleared, Ms. Mauvais focused her attention on her guests. “Now, my darling young people, I wonder if you know what you have in that notebook. Did you peek inside at all?”
“No, we didn’t,” said Cass before Max-Ernest could say otherwise.
“I don’t know exactly what’s in it myself, but I fear the worst,” said Ms. Mauvais. “You see, Pietro was a dear, dear friend. But I’m afraid he was quite ill—mentally, I mean.”
“Mentally? You mean he was crazy? It didn’t seem like it,” said Cass defensively. She felt somehow as though she was being personally insulted.
“Oh, so then you did read it?”
Cass reddened, not saying anything more.
“Your ears, my dear—think about my offer!” said Ms. Mauvais in a singsong tone. “But yes, to answer your question, I’m sad to say he was totally delusional. He had this imaginary friend—a twin brother—whom he invented as a child. He made up this incredible story about this brother being snatched away from the circus when they were boys.”
At this, Cass and Max-Ernest couldn’t help glancing at each other.
“I see you’re familiar with this story—that’s what I was afraid of. It was very vivid for him, but for most of his life he knew it was a fantasy. Only in his later years did he begin really to believe it.... Are you quite well, Doctor?” asked Ms. Mauvais, addressing Dr. L, who had remained remarkably quiet ever since she had brought up the notebook.
His face looked tight, as though he might be choking on something, but he waved off her concern. “I’m fine,” he said, covering his mouth with a napkin.
“Well then,” Ms. Mauvais continued, “when I suggested to Pietro that his brother didn’t exist outside his imagination, he became violent—he actually accused me of being the one to steal his brother, if you can believe that. It didn’t seem to occur to him that I was much too young to have been alive when he was a child.”
Ms. Mauvais chuckled and touched her forehead. “Much too young,” she repeated.
Could that be true? wondered Cass.
Was Max-Ernest right about Ms. Mauvais? Had she judged her too harshly? Just because Ms. Mauvais was a bit chilly and strange? Or because—Cass remembered this now for some reason—Max-Ernest had once said Ms. Mauvais was the prettiest woman he’d ever seen?
Was she jealous? Was that all it was all along?
“Then why do you want the notebook so badly?” Cass asked, scrambling to climb out of the mental rabbit hole into which she was falling. “If it’s all made up.”
“Because we don’t want it to get into the wrong hands. Because we loved Pietro, and we want the world to remember him at his best—not as some crazy person.”
The more Cass thought about it, the surer she became that she wasn’t sure of anything.
She had no proof that what the magician had written had really happened.
No proof that Ms. Mauvais was involved in Luciano’s disappearance.
No proof even that Ms. Mauvais was involved in Benjamin Blake’s disappearance.
For all Cass knew, Benjamin Blake was already back home, safe and sound—and there’d been no reason at all for her to come save him.
In her agitation, Cass banged the table—and accidentally knocked the wineglass out of Ms. Mauvais’s hand. The glass flew into the air and — s-p-i-l
l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-e-d—
You know those frozen-in-time moments when life suddenly turns into a kung fu movie and you see everything in slow motion? The glass was in the air for less than a second, but that second was long enough for Cass to think a thousand things—and to realize why the sight of Ms. Mauvais’s wine had disturbed her earlier.
Two words: monkey blood.
Was it monkey blood? To be frank, I don’t know—some rumors are just rumors. In any event, Cass was about to be greeted by a sight far more disturbing than a glass of blood.
Here, let me put you back in the scene—in real time, this time:
The glass flew into the air, and spilled—wine, blood, elixir, who knows, I won’t delay it any longer—out in an arc, splattering all over one of Ms. Mauvais’s long creamy white gloves.
“You clumsy girl!”
Fury passed in a blush over Ms. Mauvais’s face as she yanked off her glove. “This was my favorite pair. I bought them at the Paris flea market over ninety years a—”
She stopped speaking, following her guests’ eyes with her own.
Gloria stifled a gasp.
Everyone was staring at Ms. Mauvais’s hand, ungloved for the first time.
It was the hand of someone—of something—else. With fingers so thin and frail you could almost snap them off. With nails so yellow and cracked they were claws. With skin so translucent you could see every bone, every ligament, every vein.
It was the hand of an old woman.
A very old woman.
An older woman than Cass had ever seen.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
Prisoners

They say that eyes never lie. But I think it’s much truer to say that hands never do.
It was inevitable, in a life as long as Ms. Mauvais’s, that she expose her hand now and then. Still, she hadn’t lived as long as she had to let a little spill rattle her. Seconds later, she’d already slipped on a new pair of gloves.
As if nothing had happened, she turned to Gloria, who was sitting in a kind of stunned stupor. “Do you mind giving us a moment?”
“Not at all,” said Gloria, not moving.
“Thank you,” said Ms. Mauvais, nodding to a spa staff person who’d been standing discretely nearby. Silently, he helped Gloria out of her seat, and led her away as if she were an invalid—or perhaps an inmate in an asylum.
Ms. Mauvais turned back to Cass and Max-Ernest.
“So. Where is the notebook?” she asked, her chilly voice now an ice storm.
Before telling you how Cass and Max-Ernest responded, let me remind you of something that Max-Ernest mentioned at an earlier point in our narrative: they were only eleven.
They were surrounded on all sides by spa staff. They had no idea how, or if, they were ever going to get home. They had no weapons in their pockets, nor any knowledge how to use a weapon should they have had one. They were not superheroes, in short, they were kids. And they had just seen one of the scariest sights of their young lives (although I think Ms. Mauvais’s hand would have spooked anyone who happened to see it, no matter what age). So please have sympathy when I tell you that they didn’t hesitate very long before giving Ms. Mauvais what she wanted.
First, however, Max-Ernest looked over at Cass. He didn’t say anything out loud but his expression said something like, okay, you were right, I made a terrible mistake, and now we’re in the worst trouble of our lives, and I’m really scared, and what should I do?
And then Cass nodded back in a way that said something like, yeah, yeah, I understand all that, I’m really scared, too, just hurry up and give Ms. Mauvais the notebook before she kills us. (Really, what was the alternative?)
And then, and only then, did Max-Ernest pull the notebook out of his bag.
Ms. Mauvais took it, her re-gloved hands trembling. “At last! How many years have I waited!”
“Well, now you have it, so I think we’ll just go,” said Cass, motioning for Max-Ernest to get up.
“You’re not going anywhere yet,” said Ms. Mauvais sharply.
She opened the notebook and looked briefly at the inscription. Then she flipped through the blank pages with increasing irritation, much as the kids had when they first looked through them.
“This is all? What kind of trick is this?”
“Here, let me look,” said Dr. L.
He took the open notebook and glanced briefly at the inscription, the bare ghost of a smile crossing his face.
Then he handed the notebook back to Ms. Mauvais. “I think you’ll find the notebook’s quite full. If you look on the undersides of the pages.”
Ms. Mauvais looked searchingly at Dr. L. “A code?”
He nodded.
“So then it’s his. It’s real,” she said with palpable excitement.
Ms. Mauvais fiddled with the notebook impatiently, until its accordion-like pages opened up in front of her. Quickly, she scanned the pages, as if searching for a particular word or phrase that she expected to pop out. When she got to the last page, she looked up, enraged.
“Where’s the rest? What did you do with it?”
“We don’t know where it is,” said Max-Ernest nervously. “We thought maybe he ripped out the pages—”
“Liar!” Ms. Mauvais screamed. “You read it. And now you’re keeping it from me!”
Max-Ernest cowered, a far cry from the excited boy of an hour earlier.
Cass tried to defend him. “He’s telling the truth. That’s all there was.”
But Ms. Mauvais appeared for once to have lost control and she was hardly listening. “The Secret. I know he found the Secret. He was so close, he must have. He kept it from us. But he can’t anymore! And neither will you! I won’t let you!”
She gripped Cass and Max-Ernest each by their forearms, showing surprising strength in her frail fingers.
“Tell me what it is,” she hissed. “Tell me the secret!”
At the sound of Ms. Mauvais’s words, Daisy (who Cass had not seen since she arrived at the spa, but who Cass now realized must always have been lurking) appeared at the entrance of the tent, blocking the way out with her tall frame.
Several spa staff stepped closer to the table, closing in on Cass and Max-Ernest. In the eerie light of the tent, their beautiful tanned skins looked like hard shells. And their once-sympathetic smiles turned to stony stares.
Cass’s first impression of the spa had been correct; it was a prison after all.
Have you ever been locked in a room hours away from home by people you have every reason to believe are capable of murder or worse?
Neither have I.
Maybe that’s why I can write about it without shedding a tear.
Tragically, Cass and Max-Ernest did not have the same luxury. They had to experience imprisonment firsthand.
Ten minutes after we last saw them, Max-Ernest was pacing back and forth in a state of agitation extreme even for him. “Stupid...stupid...stupid...” he was saying to himself. “How could I be so—”
“Will you stop muttering, please?” said Cass. “It’s really annoying.”
“You hate me, don’t you? I mean, I don’t blame you. I hate me, too—”
“I don’t hate you,” said Cass in a not very friendly tone. (Max-Ernest might be admitting his mistakes, but the image of Ms. Mauvais kissing his forehead was still fresh in Cass’s mind.) “I’m just trying to think how to get past those guys—you know, so we can get out of here alive.”
She gestured toward the window where Daisy and Owen could be seen standing guard outside the door. From our more comfortable perspective, they were a funny-looking couple: the tall, dour limousine driver and the shorter, freckled butler. But no doubt they were more than capable of keeping a pair of eleven-year-old kids from escaping.
“I knew I shouldn’t have brought the notebook!” said Max-Ernest, still speaking to himself as much as to Cass. “But they said it was the only way I could get a reservation. How else was I going to get in?”
“Forget about it. You didn’t have a choice,” said Cass. “But since we’re on the subject—what I don’t understand is why you had to come here in the first place. I thought you were done investigating.”
“Because I figured out they knew who you were—that’s why.”
“So?”
Max-Ernest looked at her like she was nuts. “So—so, you were here.”
“So?”
“So, I didn’t want them to kill you.”
“Oh...you didn’t?” said Cass, trying to get used to the idea.
“Duh. I swear, sometimes you don’t make any sense,” said Max-Ernest.
“Huh,” said Cass, “I guess sometimes I don’t.”
And she started to smile.
As for the rest of their conversation—well, if some conversations are too upsetting to record, others are too sappy and sentimental. Have you ever heard two people make up after they’ve been fighting? It’s not very interesting unless you happen to be one of those people yourself. I prefer listening in on insults and curses; let everyone else listen to the apologies and declarations of friendship.
I’m sure I don’t have to tell you how glad Max-Ernest was that he and Cass were collaborators again. However, at the risk of getting mushy, I’ll point out that as glad as he was, Cass was more so. You see, as many times as she had tried to save the world, nobody had ever tried to save her before. She was so touched that Max-Ernest had come to rescue her that it almost made up for the fact he had no plan of escape.
Almost.
Just as the rosy glow of their reunion was beginning to fade, and the direness of their situation was again coming into focus, the door opened and Dr. L strode in.
No longer the silky-smooth doctor who welcomed Cass to the spa, he wore an expression of fierce concentration, as if he was struggling to contain a deep, volcanic rage. Cass and Max-Ernest instinctively backed away from him.
“Ms. Mauvais is not happy. And neither am I,” he said with ominous understatement. “We were hoping to find certain...information.”
“You mean the Secret,” said Max-Ernest, a little hoarsely.
“Yes, I–mean–the–Secret,” Dr. L said through gritted teeth. “If you know anything about it, if you saw anything, if you even think anything—I advise you to tell me now.”
“Or what—you’re going to torture us?” asked Cass, much more boldly than she felt.
“Perhaps,” said Dr. L dismissively. He pointed an accusing finger at the kids: “But it’s what the Secret will do to you that you should be scared of.”
“What do you mean? Secrets don’t do anything,” said Max-Ernest, stepping next to Cass.
“Besides, you don’t even know what the Secret is,” said Cass, taking Max-Ernest’s hand protectively.
“We know certain things,” said Dr. L, coming so close to them that they were backed into a corner.
He started listing facts like a man obsessed: “We know when the Secret was discovered: 1212 BC. We know where: Luxor, Egypt. We know by whom: a court physician. We also know that three days after his discovery, he was executed. What we don’t know is why!”
He looked penetratingly at the kids, as though he suspected they knew the answer—as though they might even be responsible for killing the physician themselves.
“Was it because the physician refused to tell the pharaoh the secret?” Dr. L asked in a menacing tone. “Or did the physician tell the pharaoh his secret?—and the secret so enraged the pharaoh that he demanded the physician’s head!”
“W-why would the secret make him so mad?” asked Max-Ernest.
“Precisely! And there’s more—” said Dr. L, almost feverish now. “Before he died, the physician wrote his secret on a scrap of papyrus, intending the secret to be buried with him. And so it was. Until years later, when the papyrus was taken by tomb robbers. They had no idea of its value—they may not even have read it—but they died violent deaths soon after, and incited a forty-year war.”
He searched the kids’ faces to make sure they were properly scared. They tried not to show any reaction. But of course they were scared—at least of Dr. L.
He nodded with grim satisfaction and started pacing around the room. The subject of the Secret lit his face with an expression so vampiric one could almost have imagined a cape billowing behind him.
“In the early 19th century,” he continued, “the papyrus surfaced in Prague, where it was purchased as a curiosity by an antiquities dealer. He gave it to an Egyptologist for translation. The Egyptologist went mad, and the papyrus was never seen again. As for the antiquities dealer, he spent the remainder of his life in a fruitless search for the Secret, until he died alone and destitute, prey to a terrible, flesh-eating virus.”
Dr. L spun around and faced his young audience, his eyes gleaming.
“Now, I ask you—does this sound like a secret you want to keep?”
“So the Secret is a curse?” asked Max-Ernest, his head full of nightmarish visions.
“It’s a formula. It’s many things.”
“A formula for what?” asked Cass.
“Never mind that,” said Dr. L quickly. “Ms. Mauvais and I have prepared all our lives to learn the Secret. You are children. It will destroy you.”
“We keep telling you, we don’t know anything about it,” said Max-Ernest, pleadingly.
“It’s true,” said Cass. “There weren’t any more pages in the notebook—I swear!”
Dr. L stared at them, weighing their words—and their fates.
“If nobody ever saw the papyrus again, how do you know so much about it?” asked Cass, curiosity overcoming caution. “Did Pietro find it?”
“Pietro had very different ideas about the Secret,” said Dr. L evasively. “We did not see eye to eye on the subject.”
“He did—he found it, huh?” said Cass, feeling suddenly very reckless. “And you guys tried to get it from him. And when he wouldn’t give it to you, you burned down his house. And you killed him!”
She hadn’t necessarily intended to say so much—but now that she had she felt oddly victorious, as if she’d been waiting to make the accusation all along, and had finally succeeded.
“Killed him, did we?” Dr. L asked, half smiling. “Then who has the missing pages from his notebook? If he didn’t take them—”
His eyes turned to steel. “Empty your pockets—both of you!”
Max-Ernest immediately complied, pulling out of his pants odd bits of paper, gum wrappers, a crumpled trading card, a chewed-up straw, and placing them on the table beside him.
As Cass put her hands in her pockets, her mind whirled:
Earlier, when Dr. L was looking at Pietro’s notebook, something had half occurred to her, just the smallest seed of an unformed thought. Later, listening to the way he pronounced Pietro’s name, the seed had come back to her as a half-formed suspicion. Now her suspicion was growing into a full-blown prediction.
But how to test it?
Dr. L looked at her angrily. “Didn’t you hear me?! I said empty your pockets—now!”
“OK, OK.”
Cass dug deeper and felt something sticky... Could it be? Yes, it was...
Cass pulled the Smoochie out of her pocket.
Making sure Dr. L was watching, she brazenly smeared it across her lips. Then she held up the Smoochie like a prize.
Max-Ernest looked at her like she was out of her mind. “What are you doing?” he mouthed.
“Do I smell...cotton candy?” asked Dr. L, frowning.
“Yeah, it’s my lip gloss,” said Cass with studied casualness.
“Lip gloss? Let me see it,” he commanded.
Cass handed it to him. “It’s made by the Skelton Sisters,” she said. “It’s just regular lip gloss, but people buy it ’cause of them. Kind of dumb, if you ask me.”
Dr. L examined the Smoochie quizzically, as if it were some unusual artifact, if not an Egyptian antiquity. Then he held it to his nose.
He closed his eyes and inhaled, holding his breath as if he couldn’t bear to let the scent go.
Max-Ernest looked at Cass—what’s going on? But she just shook her head—wait.
Completely lost in the moment, Dr. L let the Smoochie drop right out of his hand.
When he opened his eyes, there were tears in them.
“Did it hurt your eyes? Sometimes the really smelly ones do that,” said Cass, knowing perfectly well that wasn’t what happened.
“No—it was nothing! Just something from the past...ridiculous!”
He leaned down to pick up the Smoochie. “This is mine now,” he said, pocketing it.
He’d only bent his head for a second, but it had been long enough for Cass to get a glimpse of the back of his neck—and to get the proof she was looking for.
There was a knock on the door. Daisy entered the room, ducking slightly to avoid hitting her head in the doorway.
“Excuse me, Doctor. It’s the boy. He has a high fever. They think he might not make it. Ms. Mauvais says it has to be tonight.”
“Benjamin Blake!” exclaimed Max-Ernest, before Cass could dart him a look. “What are you doing to him?”
Dr. L stared at them, grim. “Ms. Mauvais is right. You kids know too much—and maybe not enough. You have twelve hours to decide whether you remember anything helpful. After that—” He left the threat hanging. “Of course, if all goes well tonight, we may not need you anymore. And that will be your bad luck.”
After he left, Cass turned to Max-Ernest. “Well, did you see it?”
“What?”
“The birthmark on his neck. It was shaped like a crescent moon.”
Max-Ernest opened his mouth—speechless, for once, at the thought that that horrible, horrible man was Luciano Bergamo.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
benjamin blake 
prize-winning artist

For most of his life, Benjamin Blake thought he was bad at art—mostly because he didn’t understand it.
When other kids drew a triangle on top of a square, he didn’t see a house, he heard the shrill whistle of a train over the dull thud of a rock landing in dirt.
When they drew a circle around two dots and a curling line, he didn’t see a smiley face, he smelled baking cookies punctuated by two beeps and a low whine.
To Benjamin, everyone and everything was a unique combination of sound and color, smell and taste. When he drew, he tried to capture all these different dimensions of his subjects. But when other kids looked at his drawings all they saw was a jumbled mess. So Benjamin assumed he wasn’t any better at art than he was at math or science or Foosball.
Then he took an after-school enrichment class called “Art Out of Bounds.” In the class, he saw a picture of rocks that someone had stuck in a lake to form a spiral; the rocks were an example of a kind of art called Earthworks. He also heard about people who got up on stage and did silly things; they were called Performance Artists. And he heard about people who just wrote lists of ideas for art they never made; they were called Conceptual Artists.
It seemed like it would be pretty easy to be an artist if you could do any of those things.
In Art Out of Bounds, students had to do things like create imaginary languages and invent alternatives to gravity. When students wanted to draw or paint or sculpt or do any normal art things, their teacher—who had long dreadlocks that bounced up and down when he spoke and made everything he said seem really important—encouraged the students to make abstract art rather than try to copy the world around them. “Copies are what Xerox machines are for,” he said, which was funny because he had just showed them some Xerox art that didn’t look like a copy of anything.
Benjamin tried explaining that his paintings weren’t abstract, they were copies of the world as he saw it. But the teacher said that was close to the same thing and not to worry. After that, Benjamin started painting everything he saw, especially music, which was Benjamin’s favorite thing to look at.
Without telling Benjamin, the teacher submitted his work to the Young Leonardos Contest. Nobody could believe it when Benjamin won first prize, least of all himself. Not only had he never won a prize before, he’d never even entered a contest before.
Benjamin liked winning. But it wasn’t easy being a winner.
All of a sudden, everybody wanted to talk to him, and talking was very difficult for Benjamin. Usually, when he talked, people thought he was crazy. Or else that he was reciting poetry.
Like those two impressive-looking strangers in the school yard—the Golden Lady and the Silver Man.
“You have such a wonderful eye. Or should I say, such a wonderful ear?” said the Golden Lady. “I haven’t seen such a talented young man since, well, since this man here was a young boy.”
“Oh, but I never painted like that,” said the Silver Man with a self-deprecating laugh. “This boy is one of a kind. Aren’t you, son?”
But Benjamin couldn’t even muster a proper thank-you. He knew whatever he’d said must have come out wrong because instead of their smiles feeling warm, their smiles didn’t feel like anything at all.
Benjamin didn’t like these strangers.
They both had gray voices. Gray was the color of computer voices and recorded messages. In Benjamin’s experience, when people had gray voices they were usually lying. But his mother had told him that it wasn’t fair to judge people by the color of their voices; especially since nobody could see the color except him.
It was hard to believe that other people didn’t see the strangers’ words curling like smoke out of their mouths—or was it more like breath on a really frosty day?—but he tried not to look. Besides, if he just listened to what the strangers were saying, and not how they were saying it, he had to admit they were being very friendly.
They told him they had come to take him to an art camp.
“It’s going to be really fun,” said the Golden Lady. “We have all kinds of unusual art supplies and there’ll be plenty of other young artists for you to play with.”
Benjamin was relieved they weren’t taking his prize away; for some reason he thought they might. Nonetheless, this art camp sounded peculiar. Even Benjamin, who had never been to camp, and who had very little sense of time or dates or seasons, knew people went to camp during summertime, not during the school year, and definitely not during school hours. But the strangers were grown-ups, and therefore he had to listen to them, and they said they had special permission from Mrs. Johnson, and they promised to bring him back to school at the end of the day.
As he mulled over what they were saying, he barely noticed that the strangers were escorting him out of the school’s back gate.
It was only after the limousine pulled away from the school that he remembered his mother’s other instructions: never get into a car with strangers.
Realizing he’d made a drastic mistake, he looked back at the lost safety of his school. The gate was still open, and a girl was looking out. It was Cassandra, the girl with the big pointy ears who for some reason always reminded him of mint-chip ice cream, kind of chocolaty but mostly minty. Their eyes locked for a moment and in his thoughts he yelled for help. Unfortunately, as weird as his brain was, he didn’t seem to be capable of mental telepathy.
One of the strangers put a handkerchief to his face, and then everything went black.
Benjamin woke still tasting mint-chip ice cream.
He was wearing some kind of white tunic and he was in bed in a small, unfamiliar room. The room was almost completely bare, with white walls, a stone floor, and a tiny window high up near the ceiling.
There was something indescribably strange about the room—what was it? It was the silence, he realized after a moment. He had never before experienced the total absence of sound.
He scratched his head and discovered it was completely smooth. Like an egg. He was bald.
Where was he?
Only then did he notice the Golden Lady standing nearby, studying him.
“Am I dreaming?” he asked, struggling to speak clearly.
She shook her head.
“Is this a hospital? What happened?”
“You’re in a purification chamber,” she said in a hushed tone. “Now, be quiet and close your eyes. You’re not supposed to have any stimulation.”
“What about art camp?”
“Later, Benjamin. Later.”
When he opened his eyes again, he was alone and he was afraid. Either he wasn’t dreaming or he was dreaming and unable to wake, which was worse.
When the Golden Lady reappeared, she didn’t say anything.
He told her he was hungry and she gave him some kind of whitish drink that looked and felt like milk but had no taste or smell.
As time passed, the lack of stimulation started to affect him. He began imagining things: sounds, colors, smells, tastes. These sensations weren’t in the front of his mind but in the far back—like when you have a hearing test and the beeps are so high- or low-pitched that they’re almost outside the range of human ears.
When a real sound at last penetrated the room he was so lost in his own head that at first he didn’t realize what it was. When he finally recognized it as the sound of a car engine, he stood up in his bed; by standing on top of his pillow, he could peer out the room’s window. It was night outside, and he could just make out a road through the trees. The limousine was passing by.
A girl was pressing her nose against the limousine’s rear window, and suddenly Benjamin’s mouth was full of the taste of mint-chip ice cream. It was Cassandra, the girl who had stood outside the school watching when he was driven away; and now he was watching her. It was like the same scene in reverse. He considered waving or yelling but then he decided he must be imagining her. What were the chances that she would be there?
He must have been dreaming after all.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
INTO THE PYRAMID

L.
L, DR. L.
L FOR LUCIANO.
L FOR LONG-LOST BROTHER.
L FOR LOATHSOME LUNATIC DOCTOR.
L FOR LYING TO THEIR FACES THE WHOLE TIME.

How obvious in retrospect. And how awful.
Cass hadn’t told Max-Ernest because she knew he’d say it didn’t make any sense, but—secretly—she’d been hoping to save Luciano at the same time she saved Benjamin. She’d imagined the magician’s brother as a frail old man with long gray hair, trapped in a jail cell. Her plan was to free him. To tell him how much Pietro loved him. To make his last days happy ones.
And all along this make-believe prisoner had been their real-life captor?
Ms. Mauvais, Cass knew, must have turned him somehow when he was a boy.
Turned him against his brother. Turned him into what he was today.
But that didn’t excuse him. That didn’t excuse kidnapping—or murder.
To think Pietro had spent his life searching for a brother who was nothing but a traitor!
Cass felt betrayed. Personally betrayed.
Max-Ernest agreed that Dr. L deserved the worst kind of punishment. But he offered so many different ideas for what that punishment should be that Cass had to beg him to stop thinking of punishments, and to start thinking of ways to escape.
Unfortunately, the latter was much more difficult than the former.
In the two and a half hours since Dr. L had been informed that “it had to be tonight” (whatever it was), the spa had come alive with activity.
The lantern on top of the pyramid, previously dimmed, now blinked on and off, intermittently flooding the spa with light, and clearly broadcasting some kind of message—although, Cass and Max-Ernest were quite sure, the message was not Morse code.
Through the window of Cass’s room, they had a view of the spa’s tall front gates. They watched the gates open every few minutes, each time admitting new guests drawn to the Midnight Sun lantern like so many moths to a flame. By now there had been at least forty such arrivals, roughly doubling the population of the spa, and filling the courtyard surrounding the pyramid with a strange and not very joyous sort of party.
From a distance, it was difficult to tell what if anything the spa’s new guests had in common—save the appearance of coming from far-off places or far-off times or both. One man wore a top hat and waistcoat, and another wore an Arab kaffiyeh. One woman came in an antique kimono, and another came in a sari. Some of the guests arrived in cars so old they resembled horse-drawn carriages. A few rode in on horseback.
The one thing Cass and Max-Ernest could tell was: whatever was happening tonight, these people had been waiting for it a long time. Some of them were so desperate to get inside the pyramid they stood at the edge of the moat as if ready to wade across.
Ms. Mauvais, more glittering than ever, mingled among them like a perfect party hostess—waving, greeting, gesticulating. She seemed at once to be begging their forbearance and stirring their impatience into a frenzy.
Finally, the large bronze doors at the pyramid’s base swung open, and the narrow drawbridge was lowered over the water. As the crowd surged toward the drawbridge, Cass had a better view of the guests, and she was able to confirm that they all shared one more familiar, unnerving feature:
“Hey, you see that—” she said to Max-Ernest.
“What?”
“They’re all wearing gloves.”
On the other side of the window, their backs to Cass and Max-Ernest, Daisy and Owen were watching the same scene. Cass had been trying to get Owen’s attention for hours, hoping that he might have some sympathy for her plight—that she hadn’t just imagined that spark of friendship between them.
Now that Daisy’s attention was focused on the pyramid, Cass tried motioning to Owen again. But Owen refused to acknowledge her in any way—even though, she was sure, he could see her out of the corner of his eye.
“He’s just as bad as the rest of them,” Cass grumbled. “I don’t know why I thought he was nice.”
She stopped talking in order to listen to the conversation that was taking place outside.
“Most important night of the year,” Daisy was saying, “maybe the most important night of our lives—and we’re stuck out here.”
“G-go ahead, I’ll watch the k-kids,” said Owen.
“Really?”
“Sure. One of us should g-get to see w-what’s happening.”
“I don’t know...”
“Oh, g-go on. Stay in the b-back. No one will see you. And I won’t t-tell anyone.”
“All right. Just for a second. But I’ll come back before they’re through. And thanks—”
As soon as Daisy left, Owen slipped into the room. Cass refused to acknowledge him.
“Dudes. Time to bail,” he said. “There’s a phone at an old ranger station three miles down. But you gotta steer clear of the road ’til then. Soon as Daisy’s back, they’ll be all over you.”
Cass eyed Owen in confusion. It was like a whole new person had walked into the room. Her butler had gone from stutterer to surfer in sixty seconds.
“Who are you?” she asked. “Are you like a spy or something?”
“Or something. Here, tie me with this—so they don’t think I helped spring you guys.”
He held out a length of phone cord. (Cass was glad to see that his hand, now bare, was the hand of a young person.)
“Wow, I’ve never met a spy before,” said Max-Ernest. “I knew spies were real, though. Well, I didn’t know know—”
“Just tie me up, and haul,” said Owen. “As it is, I put your chances at about ten percent. Wait any longer, your little butts are history.”
Cass and Max-Ernest held up their bags. They’d already packed in preparation for an escape.
But Cass wasn’t exactly prepared to follow Owen’s plan.
“We can’t leave yet,” she said as she and Max-Ernest started winding the cord around Owen. “You know the kid, Benjamin Blake—he’s in the pyramid, isn’t he? They’re going to kill him, right?”
Owen didn’t say anything. He didn’t have to.
“He goes to our school,” said Cass.
“So? That leaves more milk cartons for you two.”
Cass couldn’t tell if he was serious. “He’s why we came,” she said.
“Well, he’s why she came. And she’s why I came,” Max-Ernest amended, looking at Cass. “Anyway, she’s right, we have to save him,” he added quickly.
Owen scoffed. “Reality check. You’re children and there’s a hundred people in there. And these guys—they’re so full-on spooksville you can’t even imagine.”
“I think we can, actually,” said Max-Ernest. “We know all about the lobotomies and everything.”
“Man, they get through with you, you’ll wish you had a lobotomy.”
Cass held up a scarf. “Are we supposed to gag you with this?”
Owen nodded. And before he could say anything else she tied it around his mouth.
“Thanks, Owen.”
“Yeah, thanks...man,” said Max-Ernest.
Owen grunted in frustration. The kids had done such a good job tying him up that he was helpless to stop them.
“By the way,” said Cass, walking out, “your surf talk needs work. Your stutter sounded more realistic.”
The spa was empty; everyone was inside the pyramid.
Even so, Cass and Max-Ernest tried not to make any noise as they entered the hall of mirrors that was Ms. Mauvais’s office. Better to be safe.
“There has to be a secret door in here,” whispered Cass. “I’ve been everywhere else—it’s the only place it could be.”
Max-Ernest nodded—and a hundred reflections nodded with him. He and Cass both started walking around the periphery of the room—he clockwise, she counterclockwise—examining the edges of all the mirrors. Until they met in the middle of the wall opposite the office door.
Max-Ernest stared at the mirror in front of them.
“Will you stop looking at my ears,” said Cass, who was having trouble avoiding them herself. “I’m not cutting them off, I don’t care what anybody says!”
“I wasn’t even looking at your ears. I was just thinking—isn’t the pyramid this way?”
“Yeah, I think so.”
“Well, wouldn’t you want a window here, to see it? I mean, unless there was something behind the mirror—”
Cass pushed on the mirror—it opened immediately.
There was a flash of blond hair—
They both gasped—Ms. Mauvais!
No, they saw when they looked again, it was just a wig, sitting on a mannequin head.
“Must be an extra,” said Cass, breathing hard.
“She wears a wig?” said Max-Ernest, sounding almost disappointed.
“Yeah, and probably a fake nose, too,” said Cass, sounding almost like she was gloating.
Cass closed the panel door and tried the next one. Behind it stood an old wooden filing cabinet such as you might have found in a doctor’s office in a previous century.
Sitting on top of the filing cabinet was—
“I knew they took it,” said Cass.
—the Symphony of Smells. Max-Ernest started to pull it down, but Cass stopped him.
“It’s too heavy. Let’s get it on the way out.”
“OK, but don’t you at least want to peek in here—?” he said, indicating the file cabinet.
Before she could close the second panel door, Max-Ernest pulled open a drawer and started flipping through files.
“Look—the Bergamo Brothers.”
He picked out the file and opened it in his hands. Old faded newspaper clippings fell out, showing Pietro and Luciano performing in the circus as children.
Quickly, Cass and Max-Ernest looked through the rest of the files in the drawer. There were about a dozen, each containing information on a different child. All the children were prodigies of some sort: musicians, artists, poets, mathematicians, some of them born as much as a hundred and fifty years ago. One file had a picture of a beautiful Chinese girl playing the violin. Cass and Max-Ernest looked at it sadly, remembering the girl described in Pietro’s notebook.
Attached to the photos and newspaper clippings, detailed charts described the children’s medical conditions; almost all of them ended with the word deceased next to a date.
“You think she killed all of them?” asked Max-Ernest. “I wonder why she didn’t kill Luciano.”
“I don’t know, maybe she liked him too much. And then he got too old or something. Or maybe she wanted a collaborator.... C’mon, we don’t have time,” said Cass shutting the drawer. “Who knows what they’re doing to Benjamin in there!”
The next panel was a door.
Stepping through it, Cass and Max-Ernest found themselves in a small, vault-like library crammed with books—piles and piles of books—all of them, you could tell at a glance, rare and priceless. Some were gilded and encrusted with jewels. Others were studded with brass and bound with leather straps. Some looked so old that they would turn to dust if you touched them. It was like walking into a treasure trove of books, hoarded by pirate librarians.
As Cass searched for hidden doors and passageways, Max-Ernest couldn’t take his eyes off the books; he started thumbing through them almost against his will. While many of them had bindings of great beauty, their insides held nothing but horrors. Even the most casual inspection revealed etchings of nightmarish creatures like two-headed men and three-headed dragons, women with bat wings and monsters born in glass bowls. There were fiery planets and stormy oceans. There were ancient maps to places you should never go. Instructions for experiments you should never try. And memory keys for secret codes best forgotten.
“Hey, Cass,” Max-Ernest whispered over his shoulder. “Have you ever heard of alchemy?”
“Sure, it’s like wizard stuff,” she answered from the other side of the room.
“Yeah, but there are real alchemists, too. At least, there were people who really tried it. Listen to this—” said Max-Ernest. “‘Alchemy holds that all life is made of One Thing. Traditionally, this thing is called the Philosopher’s Stone—although it is not so much a stone as a secret formula. If they could only find it, alchemists believed that they could turn lead into gold, and that they could make themselves immortal.’ Doesn’t that sound like what Dr. L was talking about? Remember—‘the True Science’ where everything is one?”
“Yeah, maybe,” said Cass, not really listening. “But come look at this—”
Okay, I have a confession to make.
Max-Ernest didn’t really read that passage aloud. He saw a reference to alchemy in a book, asked Cass if she knew what it was, then put the book down. Those words describing alchemy—I wrote them myself. You won’t find them anywhere else, certainly not in a jewel-encrusted book in a library next to a pyramid.
The thing is, I didn’t know how else to slip in the information, and you’re going to need it in order to understand the pages ahead.
Also, I have to admit, I’ve begun to care about you to some small—very small—degree. And what is that expression—forewarned is forearmed? After all, being able to grasp what is going on in a book is one thing, being able to survive it is another.
You see, Ms. Mauvais’s spa wasn’t really a spa—or not only a spa. It was home to one of the oldest and most powerful, and by far the most sinister group of alchemists in the world—they who call themselves the Masters of the Midnight Sun.* And while they had not yet discovered the Secret, they had plenty of secrets already—and dangerous ones at that.
If only Cass and Max-Ernest had had the same advantage I’m giving you! Then they might have taken Owen’s advice and run home while they could. Instead, they acted like heroes—that is to say, foolishly, without regard to safety or common sense.
You, I trust, will not make the same mistake.
Now, back to the story:
“I’m sure it leads to the pyramid; it’s got to,” said Cass as Max-Ernest joined her in the back of the library.
She was standing in front of a bronze door embossed with Egyptian hieroglyphs—
On second thought, let’s have a chapter break. I don’t know about you, but I could sure use it.

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
INTO THE PYRAMID 
Part two

I’m sure it leads to the pyramid; it’s got to,” said Cass as Max-Ernest joined her in the back of the library.
She was standing in front of a bronze door embossed with Egyptian hieroglyphs. The door was hardly hidden or secret, but it was much smaller than average, and partly blocked by books. It looked like the door to a safe, or perhaps to a tomb—a door designed to keep people out, not to let people in.
In the exact center of the door there was a large dial surrounded by the letters of the alphabet: a combination lock.
“There must be a secret password,” she said. “But how do we figure it out?”
“Maybe there’s a clue somewhere...”
“Sure, if we knew how to read hieroglyphics.” Cass was already feeling discouraged.
“Can you read English?”
Max-Ernest pointed—
Surrounding the hieroglyphics, intermingled with lotus blossoms and scarabs and all sorts of unidentifiable Egyptian designs, were words written not in an ancient Egyptian language but rather in plain English.
When you put them together, this is how they read:

WHAT WORD BEGINS THE BEGINNING?
WHAT IF YOU ERASED THE END OF LIFE, AND REPLACED IT WITH THE CENTER OF JOY?
NOW END AS YOU BEGAN.
FOR YOUR NAME IS A MIRROR. AND YOU ARE THE REFLECTION OF US ALL.

“It’s some kind of riddle, right?” asked Cass, tilting her head to make sure she’d read all of it. “Like the Riddle of the Sphinx?”
Max-Ernest didn’t say anything. His brow was furrowed in concentration.
“You think if we solve it, we’ll have the combi–nation?”
“Yes! Let me think,” said Max-Ernest, annoyed.
“Well, you better hurry, because Benjamin Blake—”
“I know!”
“‘What word begins the beginning?’” Cass read aloud. “The beginning of what?”
“Will you please just—”
“See what it’s like when the other person keeps— Well, did you get it?”
Suddenly, Max-Ernest was smiling. “Just the beginning part—it’s the oldest one in the book.”
“OK, what is it?”
“The.”
“The? The what?”
“Just the. The first word of the words ‘the beginning’ is the.”
“It can’t be that simple.”
“A lot of riddles are like that. I should know—I’ve read over ten thousand of them.”
“OK, if you say so,” said Cass doubtfully. “What’s the next part? The end of life is death, right? But how do you replace death with joy? Does that mean you’re happy that someone’s dead? I guess if you’re like Ms. Mauvais or Dr. L—”
“I don’t know—if it’s like the first part, then it’s just about the words, not what they mean.”
“So what is it then? Benjamin could be dying right now! And I don’t think anybody’s going to replace him with joy!”
“I know, I know. I have to think—”
“Well, think fast.”
Max-Ernest covered his ears so he wouldn’t hear her—then removed them immediately.
“Wait, I’ve got it—at least, I think I do. I think—it’s E.”
“What do you mean?”
“The end of life is the last letter of ‘life’—E. And the center of joy is O—the middle letter of ‘joy.’”
“It’s the letters? How’d you figure that out?”
“There’s lots of letter riddles. Like, why is C the coldest letter? ’Cause it’s in the middle of ice. Get it? C is—”
“OK, OK, I get it. That’s a really dumb riddle. Don’t lose your concentration! So you make T—H—E into T—H—O?”
Max-Ernest nodded. “‘Now end as you began...’” he read.
“Maybe you start over with the?”
“Will you just let me—actually, that sounds right,” said Max-Ernest.
“It does? So then we get—T—H—O—T—H—E? That’s not a word.”
“Let’s try it anyway.”
They tried the combination twice, first starting by dialing to the right, then starting by dialing to the left. Neither way worked.
“Oh, wait—duh,” said Max-Ernest. “We forgot the last line. ‘For your name is a mirror, and you are the reflection of us all.’”
He went back to his thinking pose, covering his ears with his hands again. Cass tapped her toes anxiously. She was trying to let him think, but it was very difficult.
“Hey, Max-Ernest, what was that called? Remember that mirror writing you talked about?”
“Palindromes,” he said, not uncovering his ears.
“Yeah, what about that?”
“Could be,” said Max-Ernest, muttering to himself. “Let’s see, if it was a palindrome, it wouldn’t have the E, which would still make sense with the start over part...I guess then it would be T—H—O—H—T, which sounds weird, but...”
But that combination didn’t work either.
Cass groaned. “We’re never gonna figure it out. I wonder if there’s some other way into the pyramid...What!? Tell me! Tell me! Did you think of something else?”
Max-Ernest was staring at the door.
“You see that hieroglyph in the middle? That guy with the head of a bird? I was just thinking that I saw it in one of the alchemy books.”
“And this helps us how?” asked Cass, disappointed.
While Cass waited impatiently, Max-Ernest hurriedly picked up one of the books he’d looked at earlier.
“Yeah, he’s right here,” said Max-Ernest, reading fast. (This time, he really was reading!) “It says he’s the Egyptian god of wisdom and magic and the inventor of writing. Also the record keeper of the dead. Often pictured with the head of an ibis—that must be the bird head on the door. Believed by alchemists to have been reincarnated as Hermes Tris-me-g—never mind, can’t pronounce it, but he was the father of alchemy. How ’bout that?”
“Fascinating,” said Cass.
Max-Ernest grinned. “Guess what the god’s name is—Thoth! That’s our combination—T—H—O—T—H. Thoth.”
“Thoth?” Cass repeated, getting excited.
“Thoth.”
“Thoth?”
“Thoth!”
“Thoth Thoth Thoth Thoth Thoth!” Cass imitated him, laughing. It was impossible to say without lisping.
The door opened with a satisfying click.
They were at the top of a stairwell. Cass put her finger to her lips, and Max-Ernest managed, for the moment, not to say anything.
Silently, they descended the stairway, until they found themselves in a dimly lit passage—so narrow our two friends had to walk one behind the other.
“We must be under the moat,” whispered Max-Ernest.
Cass nodded, thinking nervously of her pyramid dream. She felt a wave of claustrophobia come over her.
The passageway was not, however, as long or windy as the one in her dream. Instead, it ended abruptly—at a stone wall.
“Oh, great,” whispered Max-Ernest. “Now what?”
He was about to turn around when he saw that Cass was standing close against the wall, looking through a spy hole in a small, hidden door. He nudged her and she stepped to the side—by half an inch—so he could look as well.
On the other side of the door was a vast room: the interior of the pyramid.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
A Spinal Tap Through The Nose
sight sound hearing taste

The spy hole didn’t allow them to see the entire room at once, but by shifting angles they could piece it together in their heads like a collage.
The floor was tiled with a translucent stone the color of a tropical ocean, and it extended farther in all directions than you would have thought possible from the outside. The walls, which were covered in gold leaf, stretched all the way up to the pyramid’s top, where an open skylight allowed in light from the Midnight Sun’s glowing lantern. A raised altar stood in the middle of the room, and on top of the altar stood a large iron bowl (smaller than a Volkswagen Bug but bigger than a witch’s cauldron) in which a fire burned with the same iridescent flame as the lantern above.
The audience surrounded the altar on all sides, creating a kind of theater-in-the-round. Straining in their seats, they stared at the fire with a sort of thirst, like desert animals stalking an oasis. Among them sat a handful of people Cass recognized as having been spa guests—all members, it seemed, of this ancient, alchemical cult.
Although they couldn’t see her, Cass and Max-Ernest could hear Ms. Mauvais’s icy voice echoing all the way into the passageway where they stood. The pyramid had the acoustics of a world-class concert hall. Ms. Mauvais was not, however, hosting a concert. Far from it.
“I know how eager we all are to begin,” she was saying. “But I believe we have a couple birthdays to celebrate this evening.”
By standing on tiptoe, Cass and Max-Ernest discovered they could catch glimpses of Ms. Mauvais standing on the altar beside the fire. She was dressed as always in gold, but she was wearing now what looked like some kind of Egyptian headdress, and her eyes were lined with black kohl. She could have been Cleopatra addressing her subjects.
“Roxana, sweetheart, stand, will you—so we can all see your lovely face...?”
A young woman—she looked, anyway, not much older than a girl—stood up, and smiled shyly at the crowd.
“How old are you today—ninety-seven? Still so young! Look at her, everyone—no more than a teenager!”
They applauded politely—and she blushed prettily. Then sat down.
“Now, Itamar, darling, where are you?” asked Ms. Mauvais, looking out at her audience. “Will you please indulge your old student and stand up?”
An old man raised himself up on his cane. He was ghost-pale and almost expressionless, as if human emotion cost him too much effort. But his eyes were alive and watchful; and he wore a sleek black suit so impeccably tailored it seemed by itself to hold up his skeletal frame.
“Today, Itamar turned four hundred and eighty-nine! Four hundred and eighty-nine years old! Can you believe it? Our very own Renaissance man. Take a bow, Itamar.”
The room applauded more vigorously this time. Itamar bowed his head—ever so slightly—then lowered himself back into his seat.
“All of you here—all of you brave souls—you are all testimony to our success. Every year our elixirs grow stronger, and our lives grow longer. And yet—” Ms. Mauvais’s tone turned somber. “And yet—we must face it—the ultimate triumph has eluded us. We call ourselves the Masters of the Midnight Sun—but still we chase the sun! We have not won—” Here her eyes lit up and she proclaimed with a flourish of the arm, “Until now!”
Back in the passageway, Max-Ernest was shaking his head. “It isn’t possible. It just isn’t. I mean, a hundred and fifty maybe—”
“You saw her hand!” whispered Cass.
“Yeah, but, people would know. It would be in books.”
“Shh—”
The audience had fallen quiet—Dr. L was taking his place on the other side of the fire. This was what they’d all been waiting for.
“To a baby, there are not five senses but one,” Dr. L announced in a tone that was part doctor and part priest. “The world is a blur of sight, sound, smell, taste, touch—and maybe of senses we don’t even know about. As the baby grows older, the senses separate from each other and forget that they all once sang the same song.”
As he spoke, Dr. L looked searchingly at his audience, measuring their reactions, making sure he had everyone’s full attention; it was as if he were still the circus performer he’d been as a boy. And yet the white smock he wore was more appropriate for a ritual sacrifice than a magic trick.
“We think of this new adult world as ‘reality.’ But what if it is reality that is lost? What if the real world were the baby’s world, a world where everything and everyone were interconnected?” Dr. L paused dramatically, then gestured to a spot behind the fire. “There are a few, like this boy here, who hold on to that world, the real real world, well into adulthood.”
Max-Ernest gasped—and Cass covered his lips with her hand.
Dr. L had stepped to the side, allowing the fire to illuminate his young patient. Benjamin was strapped inside a strange and intricate contraption that combined the most sadistic features of a dentist’s chair with the most lethal elements of an electric chair. His bald head was restrained at an unnatural angle, and his closed eyes twitched continuously. A jumbled maze of glass tubing surrounded him like a long and twisted IV.
He appeared to be asleep—but hardly restful.
“These lucky people experience life as a rainbow of sensation called synethesia,” Dr. L continued. “Their brains are living treasures. For they hold the key to the Secret we have sought so long.”
As if to illustrate Dr. L’s words, Benjamin trembled violently in his seat. In the passageway, Cass and Max-Ernest watched, transfixed: it was easy to imagine that Benjamin’s brain was seeing indescribable things.
“For centuries, we—we followers of the True Science—we have searched for our so-called Philosopher’s Stone by melting metals or mixing chemicals or digging in the dirt. We have looked everywhere except the one place we might have found it—in the mind of the philosopher himself.”
Dr. L held up a stick. It was long and slender and bent at the end. It appeared very old.
“With this reed the Egyptians vacuumed the internal organs of the dead. We will use it in much the same way—although tonight we won’t be making a mummy. Well, not exactly.”
His audience chuckled leeringly, as if he were describing an amusing but tasty dish.
“First, we will enter through the sinuses, here—Then we travel upwards to extract cerebrospinal fluid from the patient’s ventricular system, here—”
Dr. L touched the reed to the bridge of Benjamin’s nose, then traced a line upward and around to the back of Benjamin’s head. Unconsciously, Max-Ernest touched his own head; Dr. L, he remembered, had had similar plans for him.
“In essence—a spinal tap through the nose,” Dr. L summarized. “For this boy, I’m afraid brain death is a near certainty. But a price worth paying, I think. Because what we get in return is nothing less than life itself. Everlasting life.”
As he said these words, he pulled a small vial out of his pocket, and poured its contents into the fire beside him. The fire flared up high, its flames bright yellow—and suddenly the pyramid filled with the smell of sulfur.
“Everlasting life,” Dr. L repeated.
“Cass,” whispered Max-Ernest.
“Shh. I’m thinking.”
“But—”
“I’m trying to think of a way to save Benjamin. They’re gonna suck his brains out any second!”
“I know—”
“Then let me think! Remember how I let you—”
“I was just going to say—that vial, it looks like he got it from the Symphony of Smells.”
“That’s it!”
“What?”
“That’s how we save him. C’mon, we’re going up there—” She pointed to the open skylight at the top of the pyramid.
Max-Ernest stared. “Up there? How?”
“From the outside—now follow me!” said Cass, already starting to retrace their steps.
When they got to Ms. Mauvais’s office, Cass stopped to take the Symphony of Smells out of the closet.
“I thought you said it was too heavy,” said Max-Ernest.
“It’s for my idea—”
They were about to exit the office when they heard footsteps coming their way.
Putting her finger to her lip, Cass silently re-closed the office door.
“Hello? Is someone there?” Daisy’s voice called out.
They crouched down behind Ms. Mauvais’s desk, their hearts thumping in their ears. If Daisy entered, they would be caught—for certain.
“Ms. Mauvais? Doctor?” Daisy addressed the office door. “I’m just—I had to get some food for those kids. I’m on my way back right now. Won’t be a second—”
The big woman hesitated. Then, hearing nothing, she continued on her way.
Cass and Max-Ernest exhaled.
“I think she was scared she was going to get in trouble,” Cass whispered, stifling what would have been a giggle in more relaxed circumstances.
A moment later, they stood in front of the moat. The drawbridge had been pulled up.
“Oh no,” said Max-Ernest. “What are we supposed to do now?”
“This—” said Cass, pushing him into the moat.
“But I can’t swim—!”
“You don’t have to—see, you’re standing!”
“I am?”
The water was only about waist deep. But that didn’t prevent Max-Ernest from complaining that he was drowning as they waded across.
“C’mon, hurry!” said Cass. “He’s gonna be brain-dead any second!”
When they got to the other side, they started scrambling up the pyramid without pausing to dry off.
The stone block steps were big and slippery, and sometimes Cass and Max-Ernest had to use their hands to pull themselves up. But somehow they managed to climb the pyramid in less time than it would take most of us to climb a staircase at home.
“So, what’s the plan?” asked Max-Ernest, panting, when they got to the top.

CHAPTER THIRTY 
A MESSAGE FROM ABOVE

As you’ve seen—or heard, depending on how you want to put it—the acoustics inside the pyramid were especially good. This was one of those places in which you don’t want to make any embarrassing sounds. Forget sneezes and coughs— even the smallest, was-that-breakfast-or-lunch belch, or the softest, nobody-will-know-it’s-me fart, could be heard on the other side of the room.
Which brings me—by a somewhat unpleasant route—to my point.
The interior of the pyramid was not only a space where sounds reverberated, it was also a space where smells reverberated. With so many people in a single room, ventilated only at the top, the air became a little, well, humid.
The smell of sulfur—that old stink of huevos podridos—was still lingering as Ms. Mauvais stepped in front of the fire and raised her arms in the air, her long sleeves hanging like golden wings. She seemed to address the sky itself as she cried:
“Thrice Great Hermes—hear me!”
With the entire assemblage fixing their attention on Ms. Mauvais, very few people noticed the small object—actually a glass vial—that dropped out of nowhere as if in response to her words. And only a slightly larger number noticed the small violet flare that erupted when the vial landed in the bowl of fire.
But nearly everyone noticed the sweet, flowery smell that flooded the room. Most eyed their neighbors accusingly, as if someone was wearing a particularly odiferous perfume.
Dr. L—who was bent over Benjamin, prepping the boy’s nostrils for the operation—raised his head briefly, and sniffed. Then he returned his focus to Benjamin, presumably coming to the same conclusion.
Ms. Mauvais didn’t seem to notice the smell at all.
“The Egyptians called you Thoth. The Greeks called you Hermes. The Romans called you Mercury,” she intoned, her arms still raised in supplication.
The next vial to drop out of the sky—several more people saw this one—caused a pale green, sparkling flare when it fell into the fire. It filled the room with a light, herbal, faintly medicinal scent that, if you’d had a lot of colds, you might have recognized as echinacea.
Again, Dr. L raised his head, but this time he held it up a little longer and inhaled thoughtfully. Then, he shook his head as if to shake off some dark fantasy, and started to prod Benjamin’s nose with the reed. He was about to begin the operation.
Ms. Mauvais faltered only briefly before continuing, “Hermes Trismegistus, we call upon you now. Give up at last your Secret!”
As the third vial dropped, several people pointed to it—their attention wholly diverted from the altar. When a dark blue-black flame jumped up from the fire, the entire room gasped. And, as the curling black smoke filled the room with the scent of licorice, everyone sniffed in unison.
Then they broke into loud applause. It was all part of Dr. L’s show. Or so they assumed.
Dr. L, too, had turned his attention away from the imminent operation. But he wasn’t clapping. He looked stunned, almost sick, as if he had just heard some terrible news.
“What’s happening?” Ms. Mauvais asked him anxiously. “Who’s doing this?”
Up on top of the pyramid, Max-Ernest turned ex–citedl-y to Cass. “It’s working! How ’bout that? Now do P!”
“I don’t see it—”
“It was peanut butter, remember. H–E–L–P. Heliotrope. Echinacea. Licorice. Peanut butter.”
“I know it was peanut butter. It’s just not here. It’s supposed to be in number twenty.”
She showed him the open Symphony of Smells case and pointed to the empty slot. Max-Ernest quickly started overturning vials, reading labels.
“It has to be here. It has to—”
“Oh wait!” said Cass. She tore into her backpack, reaching down to the very depths, and pulled out a zip-lock bag full of old, smashed-up trail mix. Inside, there were five ancient, shapeless peanut-butter chips. Cass showed them to Max-Ernest.
“Think these will work?”
“I don’t know—it doesn’t really look like enough. How ’bout if you mix them with one of the others?” He looked through the vials and pulled one out. “Here. Butter-flavor.”
“Try it.”
“Me?”
Cass nodded.
Max-Ernest pushed the peanut butter chips into the vial, then held it over the open skylight.
“Here goes—Oh no!”
In his nervousness, he let it drop a little sooner than he meant to.
The vial veered off to the side and looked like it would miss the fire altogether.
At the last second, it hit the rim of the bowl and fell into the fire.
Cass and Max-Ernest waited breathlessly until a small yellowish flame flared up. Soon, the smell of peanut butter was released, not as strong as the other scents, but strong enough to waft all the way up to them.
Our two friends sighed in relief.
Down below, Dr. L staggered as if he’d been shot.
“Pietro! Fratello mio! Venga qua!” he cried. “Quanto tempo devo aspettare? Where are you? Speak to me!”
Completely overwrought, he spun around the altar, then looked up toward the skylight.
Cass and Max-Ernest jerked their heads out of view.
“You think he saw us?” asked Max-Ernest, panicking.
“No. He thinks we’re his brother. For sure.”
As if to underline her point, Dr. L shouted his brother’s name again. “Pietro! Pietro!”
“Is it really him? Are you sure?” asked Ms. Mauvais, almost as distraught as Dr. L. “Could he have survived?”
Dr. L didn’t answer. He ran off the altar—and out of the room.
“Everyone, please. Stay calm. Everything’s fine. We’ll be right back,” said Ms. Mauvais to their audience. Then she raced after him.
“C’mon. We gotta get down now,” said Max-Ernest, about to climb down the side of the pyramid.
”Yeah. But not like that.”
Cass reached into her backpack again and pulled out a coil of rope. Working quickly and professionally, she wrapped the rope around one of the lantern’s steel supports, and tied it with two half hitches the way Grandpa Larry had once shown her.
Then she dropped the free end of the rope through the skylight. It dangled over the fire, just out of reach of the flames. She tried not to look.
Max-Ernest stared, frozen.
“It’s the only way we’ll get down there before they reach us,” said Cass, more calmly than she felt.
Max-Ernest just shook his head.
“It’ll be easy. You just swing a little bit when you get to the fire. Then jump when it’s out of your way.”
Max-Ernest shook his head again.
“OK, you get caught if you want. I’m going by myself.”
“You mean without me?!”
Without answering, Cass lowered herself through the skylight. She knew if she hesitated she’d never do it.
Deliberating about whether or not to follow her, Max-Ernest looked down the length of rope—
“Cass—stop! Look!”
Cass looked down: the end of the rope had caught on fire and, like a fuse, the flames were advancing toward her. At any moment, they would reach her, and she’d fall to a fiery death.
The strange thing was she didn’t panic. Or rather, she did panic, but the part of her that was panicking was like another person—a child screaming next to her—while she figured out what to do. She was a survivalist, she reminded herself; this is what she’d been training for.
Cass tried to remember what she’d learned in gym about wrapping the rope around her leg as a brace—but she succeeded only in slipping down another foot.
So she abandoned technique and used her instincts.
If you’ve ever climbed up a rope, you know it’s a lot harder than climbing down one. But the possibility of being burned alive is a powerful incentive. Just as her feet started to feel the heat, she pulled herself back up to the top—and rolled away from the skylight.
“Wow. We almost added you to the Symphony of Smells,” said Max-Ernest, who looked like he’d barely escaped being burned alive himself.
“Very funny,” said Cass, on her back and still breathing hard.
Then she laughed. “Actually, that really was kind of funny. Mean. But funny.”
“Really? It was?”
“Uh huh.”
“So then—I made a joke?” asked Max-Ernest, beginning to smile. “How ’bout that?”
“Yeah, and it took me almost dying,” said Cass, sitting up.*
She smiled back at him to show she wasn’t mad. “By the way, thanks for saving my life.”
“You’re welcome,” said Max-Ernest, like it was no big deal. But of course it was. Cass didn’t say thank you very often.
“I didn’t really want to go down there without you—I thought you would follow me,” Cass added. “But I shouldn’t have gone anyway. I mean, since we’re collaborators and everything. Sorry.”
“Don’t worry about it,” said Max-Ernest, like this wasn’t a big deal either. But of course it was. Cass apologized even less often than she said thank you.
Down below, fire had spread to the pyramid walls. People were screaming and running for the exits. It was pandemonium.
“Okay, let’s get down there,” said Cass. “Your way.”
“Wait—what if Dr. L is on his way up?”
They peeked over the side of the pyramid.
Sure enough, Dr. L was running up the stone steps, with Ms. Mauvais just a few steps behind.
“Pietro! Pietro!” he kept shouting.
There was only one thing to do: go down the other side.

CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE
SMOKE

When they reached the bottom, Dr. L’s silhouette was visible atop the pyramid. Behind him, smoke and fire spewed out of the skylight.
“Hey—it looks we made a volcano after all,” said Max-Ernest, pointing to the pyramid. “Maybe we can turn it in for extra credit. How ’bout that?” He looked at Cass to see if she would laugh at this joke, too. But she hadn’t heard him.
She was staring at Dr. L, who was holding something in his hands—“My backpack!”
“You can’t worry about that now, we have to run,” said Max-Ernest—which, when you think about it, was quite reasonable under the circumstances.
“But the Symphony of Smells is in there!”
“C’mon, we have to run,” repeated Max-Ernest with a little more urgency.
“I know, it’s just—he’ll know it’s us!”
“C’mon!” Max-Ernest, repeated again, yelling this time.
“OK, OK. They’re gonna hear you—”
Cass and Max-Ernest ran along the edge of the moat until they got to the pyramid’s front entrance. The last stragglers were still coming out and Cass and Max-Ernest had to push past them to get inside.
By the time they stepped onto the altar, the room was empty.
Flames had crawled all the way up Cass’s rope as if it were a giant candlewick. The fire was now threatening to engulf the entire pyramid. The smell of sulfur was so strong it was almost unbearable.
The ruckus had finally wakened Benjamin Blake. He stared at the flames in front of him, confusion and terror evident in his face.
“Hey, Ben. Try to relax, OK? We’re going to get you out of here,” said Cass in a surprisingly gentle voice.
In reply, he mumbled something that sounded like a question, but was totally undecipherable.
Or would have been to anybody but Max-Ernest.
“You’re inside a pyramid,” Max-Ernest answered while Cass started unbuckling the straps that bound Benjamin to the chair. “Not a real pyramid—well, kind of a real pyramid. It has a real pyramid shape. But it’s not really in Egypt. And not in any other place they have pyramids, like Mexico or Peru. Anyway, the pyramid’s on fire, as you can see, and there’s people outside that want to suck your brains. But don’t worry about that—you’re going to be fine!” Max-Ernest concluded in as reassuring a tone as he could muster.
The last of the straps fell off—and Benjamin fell to the floor. Whatever Dr. L had done to him had left him very weak.
Cass and Max-Ernest pulled him up with difficulty. When they succeeded in getting him to stand, he mumbled again.
“What’s he saying now?” asked Cass.
“I don’t know. Something about mint-chip ice cream?”
“We’ll get ice cream later—lots,” Cass said to Benjamin. “But right now we have to walk, OK?—fast.”
Cass and Max-Ernest half pushed, half pulled, and half carried Benjamin across the tile floor. (I know, that’s three halves, which is an impossibility—but so was getting him out of there.)
When they got close to the entrance, Benjamin started mumbling again and shaking his head.
“He says we have to stop. There’s smoke—we can’t go through the door,” said Max-Ernest.
“But the fire’s in here, not outside.”
“He says not that kind of smoke. Gray smoke. The smoke is...Ms. Mauvais? Is that right, Ben?”
Benjamin nodded as vigorously as he could given his condition.
Then they heard Ms. Mauvais shouting outside the pyramid. “How could you be such an idiot? To fall for a trick like that!”
“Shut up! Or I’ll kill you, too—right after those wretched kids!” Dr. L shouted back.
The kids made a beeline for the pyramid’s back door.
They slammed it shut behind them just as Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais entered the pyramid.
Benjamin said something under his breath.
“He says ‘phew,’” said Max-Ernest.
“Yeah, I know. I got it that time,” said Cass.
Through the spy hole, they watched Ms. Mauvais scanning the room for them. Behind her, Dr. L gripped Cass’s backpack as if he was about to tear it apart.
“C’mon—” said Cass. “Before they see us!”
Coughing, the kids ran through the smoke-filled passageway. Lights flickered on and off.
“Stay low. That way you don’t breathe in so much smoke,” Cass instructed.
In the library, books were already starting to burn: tiny pieces of text floated upward as they turned to ash. Portraits of medieval monsters were devoured in flames. And bits of engraved bat wings flew through the smoke. It had been the best library of its kind this side of Budapest. Now it would be gone forever—and no one even stopped to look.
By the time they managed to get Benjamin outside, Cass and Max-Ernest were almost as exhausted as he was.
Around them: chaos.
The whole complex was on fire, and panicked guests were running every which way, ignoring the efforts of staff to herd them in a single direction. Two horses, now riderless, reared back, then bolted into the smoke.
“This way—” said Cass in an urgent whisper. “Here, take my hands so we don’t get separated—” She offered a hand each to Max-Ernest and Benjamin, and they all took off together in the direction of the spa’s front entrance.
With all the commotion, no one seemed particularly concerned to see them zigzagging through the crowd.
As they passed her room, Cass pointed to the body lying on the ground beside the door. It was Daisy, gagged and tied up in Owen’s place.
“I bet she was surprised!” Cass said admiringly. “Wonder how Owen got out. We tied him up so tight.”
Cass waved. Daisy glared in mute rage as she struggled to free herself.
The open gate loomed in front of them. They were seconds away from escape.
Then they heard Daisy yelling, “Stop them! They’ve got the boy! Close the gate!”
Somewhere, someone obeyed her—the gate closed.
Dozens of angry staff and guests started converging on them.
They looked back toward the pyramid. Fire raged. There was no retreat.
The frenzied crowd shouted “Get them!” and “Don’t let them go!” and “Throw them into the fire!”
And then they heard the sound of a car engine.
The kids braced themselves for the worst: the Midnight Sun limousine was barreling toward them.
“What did the Bergamo Brothers say again?” asked Max-Ernest. “I mean, when they thought the lion was going to eat them?”
“Arrivederci.” Cass squeezed his hand.
The limousine screeched to a stop, missing them by inches.
“Cass! Max-lad! Get in, ye all!”
It took the kids a second to realize it was Owen leaning out the window, now speaking with an Irish brogue.
And another second to realize they hadn’t been caught, they were being offered a ride.
Cass and Max-Ernest were barely able to get Ben-jamin into the limousine before Owen started backing up.
“Nice timing,” said Cass.
“Aye. So ’twas,” said Owen, with what might pass for a mischievous Irish grin.
Cass and Max-Ernest looked back through the limousine’s back window and saw Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais coming around the side of the pyramid.
“Stop that limousine!” shouted Ms. Mauvais. “Now!”
But by then the fire had jumped from the bridge to the outer buildings—and staff and guests alike were fleeing in all directions.
“If you don’t run after them, I’ll cut you all off! No elixirs for any of you!”
Nobody heeded her.
As the limousine crashed through the spa gates, Ms. Mauvais clenched her fist in frustration. Her perfect skin was stretched so tight it looked like her face might rip in half.
Disgusted, Dr. L hurled Cass’s backpack into the flames.
Inside the limo, Cass winced as if it were part of her that had been tossed into the fire.
Owen careened down the dark mountain roads at a maniacal speed, certain they were being followed.
But, gradually, he and his passengers started to relax. And the drive began to feel more like a road trip and less like a prison break.
“So are you going to keep talking like you’re Irish?” asked Cass. “I just want to know, ’cause if I meet somebody who’s like speaking German or Rastafarian or something, I want to know if maybe it’s you.”
“So I’m acting, am I? You think I’m not being the real Irishman?”
“Yeah, pretty much.”
“She’s a right clever lass, isn’t she?” said Owen, turning to look back to the others. Max-Ernest nodded, grinning.
Owen eyed Benjamin. “So that’s Ben, is it? What’s the story, Ben? You look mad out of it. What drugs would they be giving you back in there?”
Benjamin groaned incoherently.
“He says they didn’t give him anything,” Max-Ernest translated. “It’s just your driving,”
“Said that, did he?”
“No. I was just joking,” said Max-Ernest.
“Not funny,” said Owen.
“Well, I thought it was,” said Cass, laughing.
“Really?” asked Max-Ernest.
Cass nodded.
Max-Ernest grinned happily. “How ’bout that?”
Cass turned to Benjamin. “You know what—mint-chip is my favorite ice cream. We’ll get some soon, I promise.”
Benjamin smiled—and nodded off.
Even Cass and Max-Ernest started to get woozy as the adrenaline of the evening’s events wore off.
Noting that it had been months since he’d been able to listen to any “real music,” Owen turned on the radio—blasting hip-hop with lyrics that the kids were glad their parents weren’t around to hear.
With the road as curvy as it was, there was no way they could have seen a vehicle that was more than a few feet ahead of them; with the music at such a high decibel level they couldn’t have heard the vehicle either.
So it was almost a miracle when Benjamin sat up in his sleep and screamed in his clearest voice, “Stop!”
Owen slammed on the brakes. The limousine skidded to a stop.
A few feet in front of them, a pickup truck was parked lengthwise across the narrow road and honking loudly.
“Who’s that? Are they from the spa?” asked Max-Ernest, now wide awake.
“Well, we’re not waiting long enough to find out, are we?” said Owen. “Hold on, ye all—let’s hope this limousine likes the bumps!”
He started backing up.
Then the honking was joined by a familiar and extremely loud bark.
“Wait!” said Cass. “That’s Sebastian!”
Owen braked again and everyone looked back at the pickup truck. Standing beside the truck were Grandpa Larry and Grandpa Wayne, waving like madmen.

CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO
DO-IT-YOURSELF ENDING

Only bad books have good endings.
If a book is any good, its ending is always bad—because you don’t want the book to end.
More importantly—more importantly to me, anyway—endings are hard to write.
You try wrapping up your story, showing how your characters have grown, sewing up any holes in your plot, and underlining your theme—all in a single chapter!
No, really. Try.
Because I’m not going to do it.
(I’ll give you a hint about the theme of this book—it has nothing to do with the value of hard work. It isn’t “If at first you don’t succeed, try again,” or anything honorable and inspiring like that.)
Oh, I won’t leave you hanging entirely. There are levels of cruelty that even I am not capable of.*
As writing material, I will give you a few key incidents: things that happened after Cass and Max-Ernest were rescued, and that would have to be included in the ending of this book, if it had an ending.
To make it easier for both of us, I’m going to organize the material according to the characters involved. When these pages land in your hands, you can rearrange events as you see fit.
Owen
Let’s get rid of him first.
What I would imagine for Owen is a touching little good-bye scene in which he teases the kids about tying him up and says they better be careful because he’s going to get them back when they least expect it. Then he would leave with a tip of the hat, promising more adventures to come.
All this, don’t forget, in an amusing new accent—East Indian, say, or Korean.
You like that scene? Please use it.
But it didn’t happen.
What really happened is that Owen drove away as soon as he knew the kids were safe with Cass’s grandfathers. He was so quiet about it that nobody noticed until the limousine was gone. I can’t say why he didn’t say good-bye—it wasn’t very polite, and it hurt Cass’s feelings more than she would have cared to admit. Maybe he didn’t want to intrude on Cass’s moment with her grandfathers. Or maybe he couldn’t choose the right accent for a good-bye. Or maybe spies are just like that.
The Grandfathers
If you don’t mind, I’ll skip the part of the ending where Sebastian jumps out of Wayne’s truck and runs over to Cass and starts licking her face.
And where Cass hugs both her grandfathers in turn, and then both at once, and then both in turn again.
And where she says she knew, just knew, they’d come, and she guesses (correctly) that Max-Ernest’s parents told them where to look.
And, if you don’t mind, I’ll skip the part where the kids all climb into the back of Grandpa Wayne’s truck and they start driving down the mountain and everybody is really tired but really happy.
You knew all that stuff was going to happen as soon Cass heard Sebastian’s bark.
But there is one event that occurred on their way home—well, really it was more of a conversation— that I’d like to tell you about.
Picture an old, roadside gas station. Grandpa Wayne was sitting in the driver’s seat of his truck, studying a map, while Grandpa Larry was filling the truck with gas. Cass and Max-Ernest sat in the back of the truck with Benjamin, who was sleeping next to them on a blanket so ratty it must have belonged to Sebastian. Sebastian, meanwhile, was standing by the truck’s tailgate, sniffing the gasoline in the air like it was a delectable treat.
They’d already gone over the events that had transpired at the Midnight Sun five or six times when Max-Ernest looked at Cass and said, “So, I guess my doctor was wrong.”
“About what?” asked Cass.
“About how you’re just a survivalist ’cause of your dad being hit by lightning, and you don’t really care about saving people. ’Cause you actually did, you saved someone.” He pointed to the sleeping Benjamin.
“Yeah, I guess so,” said Cass, sounding oddly uncertain.
“Lightning, huh?” asked Grandpa Larry with a raised eyebrow. Apparently, he’d been listening from the gas pump.
“You don’t know anything about it!” said Cass, her ears turning red.
“Well, I know about good stories, and I’m all for them,” said Larry diplomatically, climbing back into the truck’s front cab.
Inside the cab, he whispered something into Wayne’s ear. Wayne nodded somberly and started driving the truck back onto the road.
“I guess I should tell you, I mean, now that we’re alive and everything,” said Cass, speaking to Max-Ernest but looking at her grandfathers, “I didn’t really tell you the whole story—about my dad.”
“You mean there’s more, besides him being hit by lightning?” asked Max-Ernest, eyes wide.
“Well, I don’t really know that he got hit by lightning.” Cass hesitated. “Actually, I don’t even know if he’s dead.”
“You mean you made up the story?” asked Max-Ernest, incredulous.
“I heard it on TV....”
Max-Ernest stared at her, then broke into a big smile.
“So, basically, you lied,” he said as if this were great news. “That cancels out my telling my doctor! We’re even! How ’bout that?”
“You don’t have to be so happy about it.”
“So who was your real dad?” asked Max-Ernest after a moment.
“I don’t know,” said Cass matter-of-factly.
“You don’t? Didn’t your mother tell you?” Max-Ernest couldn’t hide his astonishment.
Cass shook her head.
“Well, didn’t you ever ask?”
“Yeah, when I was little. But she used to just say she would tell me when I got older. And ever since, it’s like, I don’t know, I’m afraid to ask. Like it would hurt her feelings or something.”
“Well, I think you should ask again—”
“Leave her alone,” said Grandpa Larry, leaning out the back window. “She’ll ask when she’s ready.”
“OK,” said Max-Ernest. “I was just saying—”
But he didn’t say anything more.
Cass’s Mother
As you can imagine, Cass’s mother entered a state of extreme anxiety as soon as Cass failed to answer her cell phone at the usual hour. Proud of her self-control, her mother waited a whole minute before she called Cass’s grandfathers to ask where Cass was. When she couldn’t get through, she calmly and rationally drove to the airport—and screamed at the top of her lungs until she got on the first flight home.
Late that night, as Grandpa Wayne’s pickup truck pulled up in front of the firehouse, a taxi was pulling out. Cass’s mother stood in the doorway. Her eyes grew stern when she saw Cass hop out of the back of the truck.
“Cassandra! What were you doing in the back of that thing—do you know how dangerous that is? Not to mention against the law. And you two—” she said, pointing at Cass’s grandfathers. “You promised!”
Now, to my mind, Cass’s mother getting mad about Cass riding in the back of a truck—when Cass had been doing far more dangerous things only a short time before—is both funny and realistic. But you may want to leave it out and go immediately to the following:
And then Cass’s mother—she couldn’t keep it up any longer—she took her daughter in her arms and wouldn’t let go for one and a half minutes. (I know that doesn’t sound long, but count it out—one and a half minutes is a long hug.)
“I missed you so much,” she said.
“Me, too,” said Cass.
And then Cass—she couldn’t stop herself—she cried for the first time since these adventures began, as if she’d been saving up her tears and now she was spending them all at once.
Max-Ernest’s Parents
Max-Ernest’s parents are minor characters who serve mainly as comic relief. (Relief for us, I mean. For Max-Ernest, no doubt, they weren’t funny at all.) Nonetheless, they deserve a mention:
When he returned late that night, Max-Ernest naturally expected his parents to be full of questions. He started to explain, but his parents stopped him.
“No, don’t say anything,” said his father.
“No, not a word,” said his mother.
A strange thing had happened while Max-Ernest was away: his disappearance had brought his parents together. Their concern for their son had made them overcome their differences—and agree to split up.
Henceforward, they promised, they were going to be proper divorced parents. They would each have a house—separate from the other.
“You ran away to send us a message,” said his father.
“And we heard it loud and clear,” said his mother.
Max-Ernest thought it best not to correct them.
Amber
There’s absolutely no reason to go back to Amber at this late point in our story. But she would get really mad if we didn’t.
Not that she would say so. As the nicest girl in school, she would probably say it was “totally fine—I mean, I wouldn’t put you in my book, either.”
I take it back. There is a reason to go back to Amber. If only to report what Cass said the next time Amber offered her a Smoochie.
Cass said, “No.”
A little word, it’s true—but, for Cass, a big deal.
Mrs. Johnson
If Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais are the true villains in this book, then what is Mrs. Johnson? If I had to pick, I would say Mrs. Johnson represents the law. She’s like the policeperson in the world of our book—the one who makes the rules, and who punishes you when you break them.
Which gets us that much closer to the ending of our ending.
By now, readers will be wondering how much Cass and Max-Ernest confessed about their trip to the Midnight Sun.
The answer is: everything and nothing.
Oh, they tried.
But whenever they described their experience, reactions ranged from polite skepticism to outright disbelief.
You’d think that Benjamin Blake might have been some help. Why would he have a shaved head, Cass asked, if no one had wanted to suck his brains? But other people didn’t see it that way. There were plenty of reasons, they said. Like maybe he wanted to look like he was in a rock band. Or maybe he had lice.
Frustratingly, Benjamin himself had only the vaguest memories of his ordeal. As far as anyone could tell from his mumbled account, Cass and Max-Ernest had taken him on a trip to Egypt, where he sat around a campfire and ate mint-chip ice cream.
The day after Cass and Max-Ernest returned, a team of firemen and police investigators went to examine the site of the Midnight Sun, and the kids waited hopefully for their report. But the fire had decimated the entire spa. Incredibly, there were no survivors other than the kids. Or no survivors willing to identify themselves anyway. It was as if the Midnight Sun had never existed. The investigators would say only that they suspected arson.
After hearing the police report, people were no longer skeptical about Cass and Max-Ernest’s story; they were downright suspicious.
In a more emotionally satisfying book than this one, the principal would have wept when Cass returned. She would have apologized for ever doubting Cass, and she would have begged Cass’s forgiveness. There would have been some sort of celebratory assembly and Cass and Max-Ernest might even have received medals—for “best survivalist” and “best code breaker,” say.
Well—by now you know this book better than that.
(And, no, I’m not giving any ground on this one.)
Mrs. Johnson couldn’t prove it, but she was certain that Cass and Max-Ernest were responsible for Benjamin Blake’s disappearance, rather than for his rescue.
I won’t go into detail about their hours of detention and hard labor because the subject is too infuriating to my sense of justice (yes, I have a sense of justice, although not always an active one, I admit). If you’re a sadistic sort, you can flesh out that part for yourself. Otherwise, join me in turning a blind eye to their suffering.
Thankfully, after what Cass and Max-Ernest had been through, any punishment their principal could dish out was comparatively easy to endure.
What was harder to endure was that no one in the world believed them.
Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais
You didn’t honestly think they’d gone up in flames—did you?
I can’t tell you much about our villains’ actions after our heroes escaped. I don’t know how many of their guests they let burn to death (probably most of them) or what awful price they extracted from those they saved (probably a high one). I don’t know what sinister alchemical materials they managed to salvage before they ran. Still less can I tell you about their nefarious plans for the future, although I would bet my life they had them; creatures like Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais do not, as a rule, give up after a setback—they vow revenge.
What I can tell you with certainty is that they were last seen silhouetted on top of a mountain ridge not far from what was once the Midnight Sun. They were on horseback (remember those horses running loose during the fire?), and they had paused to take in the view and to say good-bye to their old fortress of a spa. Then, with a cry that echoed for miles, they whipped their horses into a gallop and disappeared over the ridge.
Wherever they were heading, it was too close. Whenever they return, it will be too soon.

CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO
YOUR VERSION
*PLEASE WRITE IN BLACK OR BLUE INK ONLY. ATTACH EXTRA PAGES AS NEEDED.

THE END
WELL, NOT REALLY.

CHAPTER ZERO
The Denouement

No, that last chapter wasn’t really the last chapter.
Don’t feel bad if you put a lot of work into it; the work wasn’t wasted. Many important things happened in that chapter—at least I think so.
I’ll tell you what, if you’re that angry, just push the book aside and forget all about this chapter—and all about Cass and Max-Ernest, and all about the Secret, and all about me, too.
Good riddance, right?
No, you want to keep reading?
OK, how’s this for a compromise: why not think of your chapter—Chapter Thirty-two—as the last chapter? As for this chapter—we’ll make it Chapter Zero. If anyone asks, it doesn’t exist. It’s the nothing chapter. The un-chapter. It simply doesn’t count.
And we won’t call it the ending, either. That grand title we’ll leave for your chapter. This chapter we’ll call the denouement.
One dictionary defines denouement as “a final part in which everything is made clear and no questions or surprises remain.” By that definition, it is exactly the wrong word to describe this chapter. This chapter will make nothing clear; it will raise many questions; and it may even contain a surprise or two. But I say we call it the denouement anyway because the word sounds so sophisticated and French.
You see, there was one more occurrence in the lives of our two heroes that I must relay before we are finished. And this occurrence—I doubt it will give you what people call “a sense of closure.” If you’re anything like me—and I fear you are, if you’ve read this far—you’ll find it more maddening than anything else.
My intent is not to torture you. I want merely to show you that there is a larger picture—that our story doesn’t begin and end with this book.
Or with Cass and Max-Ernest.
Or even with you and me.
One rainy Wednesday afternoon, not very long after her experience at the Midnight Sun, but long enough so that she’d already grown extremely tired of trying to convince people that her experience was real, Cass was sitting upstairs at the firehouse having tea with Grandpa Larry—just as she had done every Wednesday for years.
This time, however, they were not alone. Much to the delight of Grandpa Larry, who loved nothing more than a fresh audience for his stories, their Wednesday ritual had recently grown to include Cass’s new friend, Max-Ernest, and as a special guest today, Benjamin Blake.
This week’s tea was Earl Grey—a tea that Benjamin insisted was incorrectly named because it tasted pale blue. (Benjamin had a similar complaint about orange pekoe, a tea that he said tasted olive green; green tea, on the other hand, was not green but bright yellow.) Grandpa Larry tried to explain that Earl Grey was named not for its color, but for Charles Grey, the Second Earl Grey, also known as Viscount Howick. However, his young listeners didn’t appear to care much about the Viscount. So Grandpa Larry gamely switched topics, and started to relate an old and gratifyingly bloody Chinese legend about the origin of tea.*
It was then that they heard Sebastian barking downstairs: a customer had arrived.
“It’s Gloria—I’ll be in back!” Grandpa Wayne shouted from below.
As always, Gloria had arrived at the fire station with a big box of stuff. The kids waited impatiently as Grandpa Larry carried it in for her.
“Gloria, this is Max-Ernest and Benjamin. And you remember Cass—” said Grandpa Larry, after he’d finally found space to put the box down.
“I think so,” Gloria said. “Wasn’t she here last time?”
Cass waited for more, but Gloria only smiled in a vague sort of way, as if Gloria barely remembered her.
“Yeah, and we saw each other at the Midnight Sun, too,” Cass prompted, in case Gloria thought Cass didn’t want her to mention it.
“The Midnight Sun? You mean the spa?”
Gloria seemed genuinely surprised. “You must be thinking of someone else,” she said. “I took a terrible fall right before I was supposed to go. Ask Larry, he’ll tell you. Spent a week in the hospital. They thought I might have amnesia—it was just like Days of Our Lives! But how was it? I’m dying to hear! I didn’t know they allowed children....”
Cass looked closely at Gloria, expecting some secret communication a threatening glance or a sly wink. But Gloria’s face was blank. Either she thought she was telling the truth or she was a very good actor.
“Um...it was...OK,” said Cass slowly. “But it’s not really there...now...”
“It isn’t?” Gloria asked, confused. “What do you mean?”
“Cass, will you please put Sebastian outside? He’s about to chew this box apart,” Grandpa Larry broke in before Cass could answer.
“It’s so weird,” said Cass as she tied Sebastian to a post in back of the fire station. “It’s like I dreamed the whole thing. The spa. Ms. Mauvais. Everything.”
“Well, you didn’t—and even if you did, how come I dreamed it, too?” Max-Ernest protested. “Unless we had some kind of Vulcan mind meld. Or wait, I know, maybe we’re two split personalities in one schizophrenic brain! That would explain everything—”
“I didn’t mean I really thought I dreamed it—just that it felt like that,” said Cass, cutting him off. (Even though Max-Ernest had supposedly been cured, he still had a tendency to go on and on if you didn’t stop him.)
Benjamin, who’d been silently struggling to follow the conversation, mumbled something and pointed back toward the fire station.
“He says to be quiet and listen. He thinks it might be important,” Max-Ernest translated.
Inside, Gloria was telling Larry a story. As loud as she was, they could only make out about half of her words:
“...Never so surprised...in all my life...the gardener...and here I was trying to show the house...”
As she listened, Cass grew increasingly excited. “She’s talking about the magician’s house! You think she discovered something?”
They weren’t able to pose this question to Gloria immediately, because Benjamin Blake’s mother had arrived to pick him up. But as soon as he’d gone, Cass and Max-Ernest begged Gloria to start her story again from the beginning. She didn’t understand why they cared so much, but she was happy to oblige. (Gloria had lost her memory, not her love for attention.) The story went like this:
Gloria had been showing the magician’s house to some prospective buyers when, as sometimes happens at awkward moments, “nature called” and she had to excuse herself to go “freshen up.” Just as she was about to enter the bathroom, the bathroom door opened and an old man in a straw hat stepped out, carrying a box.
Needless to say, Gloria “had a heart attack.”
Very calmly, as if he’d been expecting her, he explained that he was the gardener—the one who first reported the magician’s disappearance—and that he was just cleaning up the magician’s study. He pointed out that she had missed some things when she packed up the house.
He asked Gloria if she would mind taking the box he was holding to the fire station—the estacion de bomberos, he called it. Gloria was so flustered she agreed right away.
Only after she’d left the house did Gloria start to wonder how he knew about the estacion de bomberos in the first place.
“And there you have it,” said Gloria, patting the big box she had brought in. “That’s the whole shebang.”
“Well, I have to say, you’re none the worse for the experience—you look fabulous,” said Grandpa Larry, looking at the newly svelte real estate agent. “Doesn’t she, Wayne?!” he called out to Grandpa Wayne, who was standing in the back of the store tinkering furiously with an old record player.
“Fabulous!” Wayne agreed, not looking up.
“That’s what everybody’s saying!” said Gloria wonderingly. “Ever since that fall. You know, I can’t help thinking that someone must have hypnotized me while I was unconscious. It’s almost like I really went to that spa—instead of the hospital!”
After Gloria left, Grandpa Larry let Sebastian back in. Grandpa Wayne reemerged—it turned out the record player wasn’t so desperately in need of fixing, after all—and everyone, dog included, went upstairs to have more tea, and to look through the box the gardener had sent.
Immediately taking charge, Cass opened the box with a kitchen knife, insisting that she get to handle everything in the box before anyone else. (She could tell her grandfathers thought her behavior a little selfish, but they didn’t say anything—probably because they didn’t want to reprimand her in front of Max-Ernest.) The box was filled to capacity with small items covered in newspaper. Cass eagerly unwrapped them, inspecting each one for clues and secret messages. But the more things she inspected, the clearer it became that there were no clues to be found. The box contained only dishware—plates and bowls and cups.
Cass was crushed. She’d been predicting, or at least hoping something. Something she hadn’t mentioned to her grandfathers, or even to Max-Ernest. Something about the magician’s gardener. But now, it appeared, she’d been wrong. The gardener was exactly who he said was. The box of stuff no more than a box of stuff.
Her grandfathers, on the other hand, couldn’t get over their good luck. “Can you believe somebody’s getting rid of this?” asked Grandpa Larry holding up a pastel plate. “Do you know what Russel Wright goes for these days?”
Taking a few sample dishes, Larry and Wayne ran downstairs to check them against pictures in books they had. Cass knew they would be at this for hours. The gardener couldn’t have chosen better things to send if he’d intentionally set out to give her grandfathers the most distracting items possible.
“So what do you want to do now? ’Cause I sort of have homework,” said Cass to Max-Ernest. She didn’t really want to do homework, but she wasn’t much in the mood for company anymore.
“I dunno...Hey, what’s he smelling?” asked Max-Ernest. “There’s nothing left in there.”
Cass followed Max-Ernest’s eyes over to Sebastian, who was sniffing the empty box, and wagging his tail.
“There’s probably just some kibble under it or something,” said Cass, refusing to be very interested.
Still, she picked up the box and peeked underneath—nothing.
Nonetheless, there was something unusual about the box.
“What’s this made of? Why’s it so heavy?” she asked, shaking it in her hands.
She put the box back down and looked inside. Then she looked at the outside. Then she looked at the inside again.
This time she reached down—and started pulling up the cardboard.
The box had a false bottom.
Hidden beneath the cardboard were two packages wrapped in paper and tied with string. The larger package was addressed to Cass, the smaller to Max-Ernest.
In a more sober moment, Cass might have reflected on the dangers of opening an unexpected package from a total stranger. This was not a sober moment, however.
She and Max-Ernest both tore open their packages at once.
Fortunately, the packages did not contain explosives; they were not even booby-trapped.
Cass’s contained a backpack.
I wish I could describe the way the backpack looked. But there’s a very good chance she’s still carrying it to this day, and I don’t want to give you any more ways to identify her than I already have. At any rate, it wasn’t the backpack’s appearance that made it special. In fact, when Cass first saw it, she was almost disappointed that it looked so normal.
Inside—that was another story. The backpack was filled from top to bottom with state-of-the-art survival gear—all very compact and lightweight and built to withstand the hardest use and the harshest conditions.
The backpack’s best features she didn’t notice until the backpack was empty. These were the things the backpack did—as opposed to the things it contained. For instance, if you pulled one cord, a parachute popped out. If you pulled another cord, the shoulder straps inflated and the backpack became a flotation vest. If you turned the backpack inside out, and unzipped it all the way around, it expanded into a full-size tent.
Cass knew her mother would be unhappy to see Cass wearing a backpack again (lately, her mother had been trying to get her to carry a shoulder bag) but Cass had a feeling this was a backpack she would never want to take off.
Max-Ernest’s package was also disappointing when first opened. It contained what looked like a familiar, handheld device—a kind of device you see every day, and not even a very special version. But it only took Max-Ernest a few seconds to discover that the device wasn’t what it looked like—at all. It didn’t even accept any game cartridges. (Oops. I almost gave away what it was disguised as.)
It had a false front that lifted up at the touch of a hidden button. Underneath was a small, tablet-style computer/scanner specially designed for cracking secret codes—the ULTRA-Decoder II. As Max-Ernest would learn after experimenting for a while, the Decoder included keys for decrypting all known code systems, and tools for deciphering unknown ones. Its memory contained full dictionaries and character recognition software for over a thousand languages including Aramaic, Sanskrit, and Navajo. It could even read Egyptian hieroglyphics.
One thing the Decoder did not do was tell jokes.
Max-Ernest loved it anyway.
“Are you guys OK up there?” called Grandpa Larry.
“We’re fine!” Cass yelled back.
They were ready to hide their packages if Larry came upstairs. But, apparently, he and Wayne had yet to finish researching their new dishes.
A moment later, Max-Ernest was busy translating the word fart into every language he could think of (someone had told him that fart jokes were funny), and Cass was taking a second look at her flashlight—not only a flashlight, it turned out, but a warning siren, tracking device, and two-way radio.
Between the rain and the steam from all the tea, the kitchen window had fogged to the point where you could no longer see through it. Whenever the light passed across the glass, thousands of tiny droplets would briefly illuminate then disappear. This must have happened a half-dozen times before Max-Ernest looked up from studying the Decoder and saw it—
“Look!” he said, but by then the light had passed again.
He had trouble getting Cass to aim her flashlight again at the just the right point, but eventually she hit the spot.
And now Cass could see it, too.
Someone had written a message on the glass—just as anyone might, say, sitting on a bus next to a foggy window. But this message was not scribbled with a finger. Rather, it looked like someone had used some kind of fine writing instrument. And it didn’t say anything like “Joe was here” or “Terry + Samantha = Love.” Actually, it didn’t look like it was even written in English.
It was written in code.
By the time they started deciphering the message, the fog was disappearing from the window, and the message was disappearing with it.
Max-Ernest grabbed a notepad and pencil from the kitchen counter. He scribbled in a kind of delirium— the kind that only comes when you’ve eaten too much Halloween candy or when you’re trying to transcribe a secret message before it vanishes forever.
Max-Ernest held up the page as soon as he’d finished copying the message.
Here is the first line exactly as it appeared on the window:
CSTO RTPPTKCOT TKC JTX-SOKSPQ:
For several minutes, the kids studied the mixed-up letters with increasing frustration.
Then Max-Ernest looked up and smiled. “What does J—T—X dash S—O—K—S—P—Q look like?”
Cass shrugged. She had no idea.
“Well, what if X was X, like really the letter X, even in the code—”
“It’s your name—Max Ernest!” said Cass.
“Right—how ’bout that?”
“Which means J equals M, and T equals A.”
“And S is E, and O is R, and K is N, and P is S, and Q is T.”
Using one of Grandpa Larry’s red pens (Larry still had a lot of them from the days he taught high school), Max-Ernest rewrote the first line of the message, substituting letters according to the formula they had just worked out. This is what he came up with:
CEAR RASSANCA ANC MAX-ERNEST:
“‘Dear Cassandra and Max-Ernest,’” read Cass, filling in the blanks. “It’s a letter to us!...Hey, shouldn’t you be using your Decoder?”
It was almost too simple a code for the Decoder. Having gotten so far, Max-Ernest could have decoded the rest of the message himself, but it would have taken him much longer. The Decoder did the job in less than a second.
It also told them that the code’s keyword was “TERCES.”*
“Terces? What’s that mean?” asked Max-Ernest. “I don’t even think it’s a word.”
“I don’t know—maybe we’ll find out if we read the letter,” said Cass, who felt as if she’d been waiting years to read it, rather than a few minutes.
It’s difficult to describe the feelings that our two friends experienced as Max-Ernest read the letter aloud from the screen of his Decoder. Even if you were good at having feelings—and I, as you know, am not—I think you would have trouble finding names for this particular mix of emotions.
There were a few easier, old-fashioned feelings, like: Happiness. Excitement. Pride. Anxiety. Fear. But there were other, vaguer, harder-to-pin-down feelings, like: A pit in the stomach that means something is either really good or really bad or both. A feeling of being old and young at once. A sense of beginnings and endings happening at the same time. A certainty that your life is changing, but an uncertainty about how it’s changing and whether you want it to.
There was also a feeling that combined confusion, recognition, and amusement all at once.
That feeling came from the way the letter was written.
The funny thing was: even after the letter was decoded, it still didn’t sound exactly like English. It sounded foreign.
Foreign in a familiar way.
Foreign in a way that felt to Cass and Max-Ernest like an old friend.
I’ve included the letter below with one minor but necessary excision. The letter, I think, speaks for itself.
So this is good-bye. For now.*

Dear Cassandra and Max-Ernest:
Congratulations for escaping yourselves from the Midnight Sun.
By rescuing the boy, Benjamin Blake, you have not only saved the life, you have performed for the whole world the service—keeping the evildoers from the great power.
Unfortunately, Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L, they have escaped themselves also. At this very moment, they collect for themselves their army. And every day they come closer to the Secret. The Secret is not what they think it is, but that is all the more reason we must protect it from them.
We have very little of the time. Many lives, they are at stake.
In recognition of your bravery and unique talents, I hereby invite you to become members of the Terces Society— and to enlist in our fight against the Masters of the Midnight Sun.
Understand this: once you swear to the Oath of Terces, your lives, they will never be the same. You will face the hazards and the hardships. And you must obey all the orders without the questions.
If you accept to join our noble cause, leave a xxxxx xxxx in this window next Wednesday.
The man you call Owen, he will find you and take you to us.
In the meantime, please watch carefully the boy, Benjamin. He is more valuable than even you know.
I beg for you to join us. Without you, I fear, we will not succeed.
I am sure I do not have to tell you—speak to no one about this letter. For you have now entered yourselves in the circle of the Secret. And anyone who knows of the Secret—their life is in the grave danger.
With the greatest admiration and respect,
P. B.

Appendix*
 The Name of This Book Is Secret 

Grandpa Larry’s Compass Recipe
To make a compass in a bowl of water, you need a magnet, a cork, and a stickpin (or thin needle). Hold the pin by one end, and brush the magnet down the pin from one end to the other—in one direction only. Never brush the magnet back up the pin. Repeat twenty times or more until the pin is fully magnetized. Then push the pin through the cork. Gently place the cork in the bowl of water. The floating cork will rotate until the pin points north. This is how sailors navigated before the invention of the modern compass. Feel free to share this information; it’s not a secret. Just don’t tell anyone where you heard it.
Cass’s “Super-Chip” Trail Mix
Author’s note: I’ve never tried this recipe myself, but Cass swears by it.
Ingredients:
1/4 cup chocolate chips
1/4 cup peanut-butter chips
1/4 cup banana chips
1/4 cup potato chips
...and no raisins, ever!
Instructions:
“Pre-break” banana chips and potato chips by dumping them into a big bowl, then crushing with a cup. (Try to make all pieces the same size—about 1/4 inch around.) Mix in chocolate chips and peanut-butter chips. Pour into ziplock bag. Seal. Eat in emergencies. Or when you don’t like what’s being served for dinner.
Circus Glossary
Here is some of the lingo the Bergamo Brothers learned when they were in the circus. But be careful. If you use these words incorrectly, a real carny will know you’re just a rube!
All Out and Over—Means the show has ended. (Or in our case, the book.)
Bally—The platform a circus or carnival performer stands on when he’s trying to attract a crowd for the sideshow. It gets its name from the ballyhoo: “Step right up! Prepare to be excited and amazed!” Like everything else in the circus, the bally and the ballyhoo are designed for one purpose: to trap the audience into paying as much money as possible.
Big Top—The main circus tent. Where the Bergamo Brothers first caught sight of the Ringmaster who would later sell them for a few dollars.
Blowdown—When a storm knocks over the Big Top—and suddenly everyone in the tent looks like a clown.
Blowoff—A special, curtained-off show at the end of a circus tent. The idea is to get people to buy another show ticket on their way out.
Carny—A carnival worker. Sometimes toothless. Always conniving. Of course, a circus and a carnival are not exactly the same thing. (A circus worker is sometimes called a cirky.) But the circus that the Bergamo Brothers joined had elements of both—you could say it was the worst of both worlds!
Clem—A fight with the locals.
Jump—The jump is the distance a circus or carnival travels between performances.
Mark—An audience member—i.e., a sucker.
Mentalist act—A mind-reading routine like the Bergamo Brothers’.
Midway—The area between—midway, get it?— the circus exit and the entrance to the Big Top. This is where the sideshow stalls and concessions are lined up.
Roustabout—A laborer in the circus. Also a fun word to say.
Rube—A rube is exactly what you are if you don’t know the word rube. In other words, a dupe. A townie or other circus newbie.
Shill—Shills work for the circus but they pretend to be ordinary customers impressed by the sideshow acts—so that other customers get excited enough to cough up their money. Think of parents at a school performance. You know how they always clap really loudly, even when their kids sing out of key or flub their lines? Parents are terrible shills.
Slum—The useless stuff you buy from a circus vendor, like teddy bears and plaster statuettes. Otherwise known as toys and prizes.
Swag—See slum.
Tip—Audience or crowd. “Turning the tip” means getting the crowd to pay to enter a show.
With it—Hip to the carnival scene. A carny. You’re either with it—or you’re not.
Keyword Codes
The secret letter Cass and Max-Ernest received from the Terces Society was encrypted with a keyword code. If you want to try encrypting or decrypting a letter with a keyword code yourself, here’s how:
In a keyword code, the first letters of the alphabet are replaced by a secret word. For instance, if TERCES is your keyword, A is replaced by T, B by E, C by R, D by C, and E by S. (You skip the second E in TERCES because you can’t repeat letters.) After the letters of the keyword, the alphabet proceeds normally—minus the letters that have already been established. Therefore, in this case, F is replaced by A, and G by B. H, however, is not replaced by C, because you’ve already used C for D; instead, H is replaced by D.
In the end, your code looks like this...Or rather, YLUO RLCS ILLHP IFHS QDFP:
 The Name of This Book Is Secret 

A Personal Recommendation
Those readers whose knowledge of Egyptology is as shamefully deficient as Cassandra’s could do worse than to pick up a copy of The Egyptian Book of the Dead, also known as The Papyrus of Ani. A guide to the next world, it includes many important spells and instructions for success in the afterlife—a useful introduction to ancient Egyptian life aboveground as well!
The Bergamo Brothers’ Card Trick
This is one of the card tricks that the Bergamo Brothers performed when they were first learning magic. Of course, they performed it on the deck of a ship, and with a real deck of cards, but you’ll get the idea.
Choose one of the six cards below and think about it really hard.
 The Name of This Book Is Secret 

Now, keep thinking about it as you flip to the next page. All the cards will appear again—except the one you’re thinking about.
Your card isn’t here, is it?
 The Name of This Book Is Secret 


Think it was just a coincidence? Try again. Go back to the last page, choose a different card, and think about that card. Then return to this page and see if it’s here....
Want to try the trick on someone else? Hand this book to them and make them choose a card. Better yet, forget the book. Grab a deck of cards and put on a show.
If you haven’t yet figured out the secret, I’ll tell you how the trick is done. But remember, the first rule of being a magician is not to give away your tricks. So don’t let anyone else in on it, no matter how much they beg or plead or threaten you.
What you’ll need: a deck of cards and a top hat. (A cowboy hat also works. A baseball hat?—not so much. Think style.)
Before your audience arrives:
Separate all the face cards from the deck.
Then divide the face cards into two groups of six cards each.
Each group of six should include: one black king and one red king, one black queen and one red queen, one red jack and one black jack.
Remove a card from one of the groups and return it to the original deck. You now have one group of five cards and one group of six cards.
Hide the group of five cards in your hat. If there is a ribbon around the inside of the hat, try sticking them under the ribbon. That way you can wear the hat without disturbing the cards.
Spread the other six cards faceup on a table.
You’re now ready to begin.
Tell someone in your audience, preferably a sibling whom you want to annoy, to choose one of the cards on the table. Tell this person not to say the name of the card aloud. Instead, he or she should simply think about the card—really hard.
If you’re wearing your hat, take it off—being very careful not to let the hidden cards fall out. Then pick up the cards off the table and put them in your hat, too. Be sure to keep the two sets of cards separate.
After a suitable magical interlude in which you pretend to concentrate on the cards, and perhaps even put the hat back on, remove the hidden group of cards (the group with only five cards) and arrange them in front of you.
Ask your victim, that is, your audience member, if his or her card is on the table.
None of the original cards will be there—because they’re in your hat. But your audience will think that only the one card is missing.
Et voilà!

THE END
REALLY.




* FOR GRANDPA LARRY’S COMPASS RECIPE, TURN TO THE APPENDIX. THAT’S AT THE END OF THE BOOK, BY THE WAY, NOT IN YOUR BODY. (back to text)




* ART NOUVEAU MEANS “NEW ART” IN FRENCH, BUT AS YOU CAN SEE FROM THE BOX IT’S ACTUALLY A VERY OLD STYLE. IF YOU EVER GO TO PARIS, AND I HOPE YOU DO, YOU WILL NOTICE THAT SOME OF THE METRO ENTRANCES ARE MADE TO LOOK LIKE VINES GROWING OUT OF THE SIDEWALK — AN ART NOUVEAU JUNGLE. (back to text)




* NOBODY KNEW HOW THESE RATINGS HAD BEEN ESTABLISHED; THEY WERE SIMPLY FACTS, LIKE GRAVITY OR MRS. JOHNSON’S HATS. (back to text)




* WHY WAS THE SYMPHONY OF SMELLS IN HER BACKPACK AND NOT IN THE SHOP WHERE IT BELONGED? I’M AFRAID I CAN’T EXPLAIN WITHOUT PUTTING CASS IN A RATHER NEGATIVE LIGHT. BUT — HYPOTHETICALLY — WOULD IT BE SUCH A BAD THING TO TAKE IT IF SHE REALLY THOUGHT SHE WAS SAVING LIVES? (back to text)




* I CAN’T SAY I AGREE WITH CASS’S REASONING, MORALLY SPEAKING. ON THE OTHER HAND, MIXING SOME TRUTH INTO A LIE IS ALWAYS AN EFFECTIVE TECHNIQUE. (back to text)




* WHICH IS EXACTLY WHAT SHE SHOULD HAVE DONE. AND WHAT YOU AND I SHOULD DO IF WE EVER FIND OURSELVES IN HER SITUATION. (back to text)




* SHOULD SHE HAVE CONFESSED ALL? I WILL LET YOU, READER, BE THE JUDGE — AS EXPERIENCED AS I KNOW YOU ARE AT PLOTTING AND SCHEMING AND GETTING IN AND OUT OF SCRAPES. GROWN-UPS CAN BE USEFUL AT TIMES — MONEY AND CAR RIDES COME TO MIND. BUT THEY ALSO HAVE A HABIT OF GETTING IN THE WAY WHEN YOU WANT TO DO SOMETHING THEY DON’T APPROVE OF. (back to text)




* THIS TERRIBLE MAN WAS THE ITALIAN DICTATOR BENITO MUSSOLINI. AS A CHILD, MUSSOLINI WAS EXPELLED FROM SCHOOL FOR STABBING ANOTHER STUDENT AND FOR THROWING A POT OF INK AT HIS TEACHER. HIS PERSONALITY NEVER IMPROVED BUT HIS LUCK SURE DID. HE WENT ON TO RULE ITALY WITH AN “IRON FIST,” MAKING EVERYONE IN THE COUNTRY — INCLUDING ALL THE TEACHERS — SWEAR THEIR LOYALTY AND OBEY HIM WITHOUT QUESTION. A LITTLE-KNOWN FACT ABOUT MUSSOLINI IS THAT HE WAS ALSO A NOVELIST. TO ME, THIS MAKES PERFECT SENSE. THE WRITER OF A NOVEL IS LIKE THE DICTATOR OF THE NOVEL; HE MAKES ALL HIS CHARACTERS DO EXACTLY WHAT HE WANTS THEM TO DO, AND SAY EXACTLY WHAT HE WANTS THEM TO SAY. BUT PLEASE DON’T DRAW ANY CONCLUSIONS ABOUT THE KIND OF PEOPLE WHO WRITE NOVELS. AFTER ALL, NOT ALL NOVELISTS ARE POWER-HUNGRY MADMEN — SOME ARE POWER-HUNGRY MADWOMEN. (back to text)




** CIRCUS PEOPLE HAVE A LANGUAGE ALL THEIR OWN. I’VE COLLECTED A FEW WORDS IN THE APPENDIX — JUST IN CASE YOU DECIDE TO RUN AWAY AND JOIN THE CIRCUS YOURSELF. (back to text)




* IF YOU WANT TO KNOW HOW TO PRONOUNCE SYNESTHESIA, IT SOUNDS LIKE ANESTHESIA, BUT WITH SIN AT THE BEGINNING. (back to text)




* SEEING LETTERS IN COLOR IS SOMETIMES CALLED AUDITION COLORéE — COLORED HEARING. (back to text)




* I SAY SEEM ALL THE MORE ANCIENT, BEAUTIFUL, AND SECRET, BECAUSE IN REALITY THE MIDNIGHT SUN WAS NOT ANCIENT BUT MERELY OLD; THE DOINGS INSIDE, AS YOU SHALL SOON SEE, WERE ANYTHING BUT BEAUTIFUL; AND, LASTLY, NOW THAT I AM WRITING ABOUT IT, THE MIDNIGHT SUN IS SOMEWHAT LESS OF A SECRET. (back to text)




* AS IT HAPPENS, SHE WAS RIGHT; IT WAS A SOLARIUM — ALBEIT A UNIQUE ONE. (back to text)




* THAT SAID, NOT ALL ALCHEMISTS ARE QUACKS OR CRIMINALS. CHEMISTRY BEGAN WITH ALCHEMY. PSYCHOLOGY, TOO. SIR ISAAC NEWTON — THE MAN WHO DISCOVERED GRAVITY — WAS AN ALCHEMIST. SO WAS THE MAN WHO INVENTED MODERN MEDICINE. NEXT TIME YOU GO FOR A CHECKUP, ASK YOUR DOCTOR IF HE OR SHE BELIEVES IN ALCHEMY. IF THE ANSWER IS NO, TELL YOUR DOCTOR TO GO INTO ANOTHER BUSINESS! (back to text)




* SERIOUSLY — IS THAT WHAT MAKES SOMETHING FUNNY? THE THREAT OF DEATH? MAYBE. BUT HERE I THINK IT HAS MORE TO DO WITH THE SPECIAL UNDERSTANDING THAT EXISTS WHEN TWO PEOPLE HAVE LIVED THROUGH THE SAME EXPERIENCE — AN EXPERIENCE THAT IN THIS CASE WAS VERY DANGEROUS AND QUITE UNIQUE. NOT ENOUGH FOR ONE, JUST RIGHT FOR TWO, AND TOO MUCH FOR THREE — SOMETIMES SHARING A JOKE IS JUST LIKE SHARING A SECRET. (back to text)




* WHEN YOU TAKE OVER THIS CHAPTER, YOU SHOULD PROBABLY REWRITE THAT LAST SENTENCE TO READ, “THERE ARE LEVELS OF CRUELTY OF WHICH EVEN I AM NOT CAPABLE.” TEACHERS DON’T LIKE IT WHEN YOU END SENTENCES WITH PREPOSITIONS LIKE OF OR IN. THEN AGAIN, YOU SHOULDN’T BE SHOWING THIS BOOK TO YOUR TEACHER ANYWAY. (back to text)




* THE LEGEND CONCERNED A BUDDHIST MONK WHO KEPT FALLING ASLEEP WHENEVER HE TRIED TO MEDITATE. THIS MONK GOT SO FRUSTRATED THAT HE EVENTUALLY CUT OUT HIS OWN EYELIDS. (I KNOW — OWWW!) ACCORDING TO THE LEGEND, THE WORLD’S FIRST TEA BUSHES GREW IN THE SPOT WHERE HIS EYELIDS FELL. AND THAT IS WHY, TO THIS VERY DAY, DRINKING TEA HELPS PEOPLE KEEP THEIR EYES OPEN WHEN THEY’RE TIRED. (back to text)




* IF YOU WANT TO LEARN HOW TO DECIPHER A KEYWORD CODE YOURSELF, CHECK THE APPENDIX. (back to text)




* SEE, I WARNED YOU ABOUT ENDINGS. (back to text)


* APPENDIX USUALLY MEANS “SMALL OUTGROWTH FROM LARGE INTESTINE,” BUT IN THIS CASE IT MEANS “ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ACCOMPANYING MAIN TEXT.” OR ARE THOSE REALLY THE SAME THINGS? THINK CAREFULLY BEFORE YOU INSULT THIS BOOK. (back to text)

If You're Reading This, It's Too Late 

FOR ENIELEDAM,
SACUL,
AND ILLIL

WITH SPECIAL THANKS TO XWP AHSATAN
FOR LETTING ME STEAL HER SOCK-MONSTER

AUTHOR’S NOTE:
PLEASE READ THE CONTRACT ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE VERY CAREFULLY. IF YOU REFUSE TO SIGN, I’ M AFRAID YOU MUST CLOSE THIS BOOK IMMEDIATELY.
P.B.

Binding Contract
I, THE READER OF THIS BOOK, CERTIFY THAT I AM READING THIS BOOK FOR ENTERTAINMENT ONLY.
OR TO AVOID CLEANING MY BEDROOM OR DOING MY HOMEWORK.
I WILL NOT TRY TO UNCOVER THE TRUE IDENTITIES OR LOCATIONS OF THE PEOPLE DESCRIBED IN THIS BOOK.
NOR WILL I TRY TO CONTACT ANY SECRET SOCIETY MENTIONED IN THIS BOOK.
ALTHOUGH, THE STORY MAY CONCERN AN ANCIENT AND POWERFUL SECRET, I HEREBY DENY ANY KNOWLEDGE OF THIS SO-CALLED SECRET.
IF I AM EVER ASKED ABOUT IT, I WILL RUN FROM THE ROOM.
UNLESS I AM ON AN AIRPLANE, IN WHICH CASE I WILL CLOSE MY EYES AND IGNORE THE PERSON SPEAKING TO ME.
AND IF ALL ELSE FAILS I'LL SCREAM.
I WILL NOT REPEAT A WORD OF THIS BOOK UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES.
UNLESS I JUST CAN'T HELP IT.
SIGNED,
READER__________
DATE___________
*NORMALLY, I WOULD ASK THAT YOU SIGN IN BLOOD. BUT LATELY I HAVE FOUND THAT KETCHUP WORKS JUST AS WELL-AND IT IS MUCH LESS PAINFUL.


PROLOGUE
The flashlight pierced the darkness
The flashlight slashed through the darkness
The flashlight beam sliced through the darkness like a sword
The flashlight beam darted — yes! — across the dark hall, illuminating a wondrous collection of antique curiosities:
Finely illustrated tarot cards of wizened kings and laughing fools . . . glistening Chinese lacquer boxes concealing spring traps and secret compartments . . . intricately carved cups of wood and ivory designed for making coins and marbles and even fingers disappear . . . shining silver rings that a knowing hand could link and unlink as if they were made of air . . .
A museum of magic.
The circle of light lingered on a luminous crystal ball, as if waiting for some swirling image to appear on the surface. Then it stopped, hesitating on a large bronze lantern — once home, perhaps, to a powerful genie.
Finally, the flashlight beam found its way to a glass display case sitting alone in the middle of the room.
“Ha! At last!” said a woman with a voice like ice.
The man behind the flashlight snickered. “Who was it that said the best place to hide something was in plain sight? What an idiot.” His accent was odd, ominous.
“Just do it!” hissed the woman.
Grasping the heavy flashlight tight in his gloved hand, the man brought it down like an ax. Glass shattered in a cascade, revealing a milky white orb — a giant pearl? — sitting on a bed of black velvet.
Ignoring the sharp, glittering shards, the woman reached with a delicately thin hand — in a delicately thin white glove — and pulled out the orb.
About the size of an ostrich egg, it was translucent and seemed almost to glow from within. The surface had a honeycomb sort of texture comprised of many holes of varying sizes. A thin band of silver circled the orb, dividing it into two equal hemispheres.
The woman pushed aside her white-blonde hair and held the mysterious object to her perfectly shaped ear. As she turned it over, it whispered like an open bottle in the wind.
“I can almost hear him,” she gloated. “That horrid monster!”
“You’re so sure he’s alive? It’s been four, five hundred years . . .”
“A creature like that — so impossible to make — is all the more impossible to kill,” she replied, still listening to the ball in her hand.
A small red bloodstain now marked her white glove where one of the glass shards had cut through; she didn’t seem to notice. “But now he can escape us no longer. The Secret will be mine!”
The flashlight beam fell.
“I mean ours, darling.”
Beneath the shattered display a small brass plaque gleamed. The Sound Prism, origin unknown, it read —

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARRGH!

I’m sorry — I can’t do it.
I can’t write this book. I’m far too frightened.
Not for myself, you understand. As ruthless as they are, Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais will never find me where I am. (You recognized that insidious duo, didn’t you — by their gloves?*)
No, it’s for you I fear.
I had hoped the contract would protect you, but now that I look the matter square in the face — it’s just not enough.
What if, say, the wrong people saw you reading this book? They might not believe your claims of innocence. That you really know nothing about the Secret.
I regret to say it, but I can’t vouch for what would happen then.
Honestly, I would feel much better writing about something else. Something safer.
Like, say, penguins! Penguins are popular.
No? You don’t want penguins? You want secrets?
Of course you do. Me, too . . . It’s just, well, what if I were to tell you that, after all, I was just the teensiest bit scared? For my own skin, I mean.
Let me put it this way: the monster Ms. Mauvais spoke of — that wasn’t a figure of speech. She meant monster.
So how about giving me a break? Just this once.
What’s that — it’s too late? You signed a contract?
Gee. That’s nice. I thought we had a friendly arrangement, and now you’re threatening me.
Oh, sure. I know how it is. You want to laugh at my jokes. Maybe shed a few tears. But when it comes to having real sympathy for a terrified soul like me — forget it, right?
Readers, you’re all the same. Spoiled, every last one of you. Lying there with your feet up, yelling for someone to bring you more cookies. (Don’t tell me they’re chocolate chip because then I’ll be really mad!)
I’m sorry, I didn’t mean that — this whole writing business is making me crazy.
Let’s be honest — I’m stalling.
In a word: Procrastinating. Putting off. Postponing.
I’m draaaaggggginnnnnnggggg myyyyyy feeeeeet.
You’re right — it’s only going to make my job harder in the end.
Better to jump back in.
Never mind how cold the water is. Or how deep. Or how many man-eating —
The only way to write is to write and I’m just going to —
Wait! I need a second to settle my mind.
Two seconds.
Three.
There. I’m standing on the edge, pen in hand, ready to take the plunge.
And here I —
HEY, DID YOU JUST PUSH ME?!?!

WELL, I GUESS IT HAD TO HAPPEN.
BY NOW, WE ALL KNOW I CAN’T KEEP ANYTHING TO MYSELF — NO MATTER HOW DANGEROUS OR ILL-ADVISED.
AND THE TRUTH IS:

 If You're Reading This, It's Too Late 

CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE
A BAD DREAM
*You will notice that I have numbered the chapters in this book backwards. Like a countdown for a rocket launch. Or a bomb. With any luck, the book will explode at the end, and I won't have to finish it.

A graveyard at night.
On a mountainside. By a lake.
Our vision is blurred. Rain falls in sheets around us.
Everywhere there is water. Dripping. Dripping.
A strange song starts to play. It sounds far away, yet impossibly close.
Like the singing of fairies or sylphs.
Like the ringing of a thousand tiny voices inside our ears.
Above us, a crow flaps its wings against the rain and, screeching, disappears into the dark.
Lightning briefly illuminates the tombstones at our feet, but they are so old that no trace of name or date remains. They are no longer grave markers; they are just rocks.
What lies beneath is a mystery.
A mouse scurries between the stones, frantic. As if he’s trying to get out of a maze. A deadly trap.
Soon he is joined by others of his kind. They swim against a tide of mud. Clawing at each other in their desperate attempt to escape.
Automatically, we look in the direction they are running from. There is a burial mound with a broken tombstone on top. Its jagged edge silhouetted as lightning strikes a second time.
The strange, eerie song wafts through the wind — until it is drowned out by a crack of thunder.
As we watch, the broken stone topples — and lands with a thud in the mud. A gaping hole is left in the ground. Clods of dirt erupt. A mud volcano.
First one hand, then another — both very, very large — emerge out of the hole, grasping at the mud to find a hold.
And then: a nose.
At least, we think it’s a nose; it could be a cauliflower —
“Cassandra . . . !”
We look down. A lone, stranded mouse is calling to us — as if from a great distance.
“Get up, Cass — it’s late!”
He sounds oddly like our mother —
Shivering, Cass lifted her head off her pillow.
She was a member of a dangerous secret society now, the Terces Society, she reminded herself. Or she would be soon. She couldn’t let a little dream scare her.
What had Pietro, the old magician, said in his letter? That once she and Max-Ernest had sworn the Oath of Terces, they would “face the hazards and the hardships.” And that they must “obey all the orders without the questions.”*
If she couldn’t face her own dreams, how could she face real enemies like Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais? Like the Masters of the Midnight Sun.
Even so, the strange song lingered in her mind, haunting her.
Again.
Each night a different dream. But always the same song.
Why?
“Cassandra!”
Her mother was calling up to her from downstairs. Cass couldn’t hear every word but she knew what her mother was saying:
Get up — it’s late! I’m off to work (. . . or to yoga . . . or to a meeting). There’s oatmeal on the stove (. . . or granola on the counter . . . or a waffle in the toaster). Don’t forget you have your math quiz (. . . or book report . . . or oboe lesson). Love you!
These days, Cass’s mother ended nearly everything she said to Cass with Love you! — kind of like it was a punctuation mark or a nervous tick.
“Love you!”
See.
The front door slammed shut; her mother had left.
Unwilling to get up, Cass stared at the wall facing her bed.
Cass’s Wall of Horrors, her mother called it.
Hundreds of magazine and newspaper clippings covered the wall — all describing disasters, or potential disasters:
Earthquakes. Volcanoes. Tsunamis. Tornadoes.
There were pictures of seabirds blackened by oil spills, and of starving polar bears standing on shrinking icebergs. There were mushroom clouds and poison mushrooms, killer bees and killer mold.
Posters and diagrams showed How to Treat Frostbite . . . The Heimlich Maneuver . . . THREE SIGNS THAT YOU HAVE A THIRD-DEGREE BURN . . . The ABCs of CPR . . .
And in the center of the wall: an article about a bear haunting campers in the mountains. BEAR OR BIGFOOT? the headline read.
Most people — people like Cass’s mother — would find a wall like this very disquieting. Cass found it comforting.
Usually.
As a survivalist, she liked to be prepared for the worst at all times. She could face anything, she felt, if she knew it was coming.
Hurricane? Board up the windows. Drought? Save water. Fire? Don’t panic, avoid smoke inhalation, look for a safe way out.
And yet these were all natural disasters. What would she do, she couldn’t help wondering now, if she ever confronted a supernatural disaster?
That was what upset her about her dreams. They were strange and irrational. They didn’t make sense, as her friend Max-Ernest would say. (Max-Ernest talked compulsively, but he was always very logical.) An earthquake might not be totally predictable but at least it obeyed the laws of nature.
Most of her dreams involved a monstrous creature and a spooky old graveyard. How do you prepare for that?
Not that she thought her dreams were going to come true; she wasn’t superstitious. It was just that they felt so real.
“There must be something in the graveyard you want,” Max-Ernest had said when she finally told him about the dreams. “A dream is the fulfillment of a wish. That’s what Sigmund Freud says. How ’bout that?”*
“But why would I wish for a monster?” Cass had asked. Max-Ernest’s parents were psychologists — so she figured he knew what he was talking about.
“Well, I don’t know if it means you wished for it, exactly. I think dreams are like things you can’t admit you want because you feel guilty or embarrassed or something. It’s called the unconscious,” Max-Ernest had concluded. “It’s kind of confusing.”
Still in bed, Cass thought about what he’d said. She reached under her pillow, pulling out the small stuffed creature she’d hidden beneath it.
“Who are you? What are you?”
Cass’s sock-monster was a little, odd-shaped thing made out of old socks and scraps from her grandfathers’ antiques store. She’d sewn it together in a kind of fever one day, obsessed by the creature from her dreams. It was green and purple and troll-like with a big, sock-heel nose, bulging bottle-cap eyes, and floppy ears made from tennis-shoe tongues. Cass liked the ears especially — ears almost as big but not nearly as pointy as Cass’s own.
Since it was 100 percent recycled, the sock-monster was a super-survivalist, and Cass found that if she held him tight she absorbed his survival powers.
Sometimes.
Other times, he just felt good to hug.*
Maybe, thought Cass, her bad dreams would end when her new life — her secret life, her life with the Terces Society — began.
Like any serious survivalist, Cass followed a rigorous routine every morning:
As soon as she was on her feet, she pulled her backpack out from under her bed and double-checked its contents. The backpack was a custom-made model that Pietro had sent her; it had special secret capabilities, like converting to a tent or a parachute. Even so, Cass kept some of her old survivalist supplies in the backpack — like chewing gum, for its sticking value, and grape juice, which she liked to use as ink.
She didn’t know what her first Terces Society mission would be — all she knew about the society was that it was dedicated to protecting the Secret — but she would be ready.
Next, Cass examined every corner of her house to see if anyone had entered overnight — whether friend or foe.
She checked:
1. The tiny threads of dental floss she tied to the handles of her desk drawers so she’d know if anybody ever opened them.
2. The dried bee corpse she’d discovered one day and left strategically on her windowsill.
3. All the windows and mirrors and doors to see whether someone had written a coded message in dust, toothpaste, or shaving cream.
4. And a few other places I won’t give away, in case the wrong person reads this.
Only after she was sure that nothing had changed upstairs did she allow herself to go downstairs, where her first stop was usually the kitchen cupboard. Cass had a hunch she might find the next secret message from the Terces Society in a particular old box of alphabet cereal.
But this morning, when she walked through the kitchen door, Cass let out a very un-survivalist-like gasp of excitement: the magnets on the refrigerator had been moved. They weren’t arranged the way she’d left them the night before (by color rather than letter); she could tell from the doorway.
She covered the distance in two leaps and stood breathless in front of the refrigerator, ready to decipher a coded message or to read directions to a secret meeting place or to take instructions about a new mission. Or all three.
Then her heart sank.
The magnets spelled: LOVE YOU
Clipped underneath was a handwritten note:
7 a.m. Off to work. There’s a waffle — the whole wheat kind — in the toaster. Don’t forget you have your field trip to the tide pools tomorrow — do you know where your windbreaker is? I can’t find it.
M.
M being for Mom or Mother. But also for Mel.
Mel being short for Melanie, her mother’s name.
Hardly a secret code.
Cass crumpled the note in her hand, despondent: why did her mom have to be such a mom?
And when was the Terces Society going to come?

CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO
The NUTS table

The Xxxxxxxxx School. City of Xxxxx Xxxxxx. Lunchtime.

I’m sorry — I still cannot tell you the name of Cass’s school. Or where the school was located. Or what it looked like. Or almost anything else about it.
Of course, I trust you. But there’s always the possibility that, through no fault of your own, you will toss this book out the window and it will fall into the wrong hands.*
I can tell you this: it was a school that lived by strict rules.
There were, first of all, the principal Mrs. Johnson’s rules, which were strict enough, but usually understandable. Like no skateboarding in the hallways, for example. Or no wearing your underpants outside your clothing.
But there were also many other, unspoken rules that were made by nobody in particular, and that made no sense at all.
One of these pointless rules was that you ate lunch at the same table and with the same people every day; if you changed tables it could only mean that you were in a fight or something truly drastic had happened.
The lunch tables were clustered outside in a part of the school yard known as the Grove (even though there weren’t any trees nearby). At the center table sat Amber and her friends. Amber, you may remember, was the nicest girl in school, and the third prettiest. At least, that’s what everybody said.
Other tables spread out from there — like planets orbiting a sun.
Cass and Max-Ernest, I am sorry to report, did little to rebel against this system. In fact, their table, located on the very outermost fringes of the Grove, was so well known it had a name: the Nuts Table.
“The name doesn’t make any sense,” Max-Ernest complained almost daily. “It should be the No Nuts Table, since it’s for kids with nut allergies.”
“I think people think the Nuts Table sounds funnier,” Cass told him.
But she stopped short of a full explanation: if Max-Ernest didn’t understand that the other students thought that the kids at the Nuts Table were, well, nuts, then good for him.
Cass had no allergies herself; nonetheless, her diet was very restricted. Because she saw lunch as part of her survivalist training, everything she ate had to be capable of lasting for months without spoiling, whether in an underground bunker or an outer-space escape pod. Thus fresh fruit was prohibited, but Fruit Roll-Ups were permissible. Sandwiches were out, but cup-o-noodles was OK.
Trail mix was the most ideal food of all; it was a whole meal in one.*
Today, however, Cass hesitated before digging into her trail mix. A handwritten note was sitting on top.
Cass grimaced in annoyance. She hated it when her mother put notes in her lunch — it was so embarrassing. Not to mention, the notes usually consisted of lists of not-very-fun things Cass was supposed to do or remember.
She pushed the note back into her reusable waterproof lunch sack. She would read it later. Maybe.
Unlike Cass, Max-Ernest did have several nut allergies (to which nuts he was never sure) as well as a host of other food-related ailments. But what was more remarkable, he always brought two lunches to school: one made by his mother, and one by his father; he was always careful to eat the same amount from each. Max-Ernest’s parents were divorced, and everything in his life was doubled or divided. (When Cass first visited his house, she couldn’t believe it: the house was split down the middle, each side designed and decorated differently, with neither parent ever stepping onto the other parent’s side.)
Today, he didn’t seem to be in a hurry to eat either of his lunches.
“So, I learned a new trick. Wanna see?” he asked, already laying out his playing cards. “It’s called the Four Brothers.”
Max-Ernest had been reading up on magic for several months now, not just how-to books but also histories and biographies of famous magicians. Every time Cass saw him he had a new story about an Indian sword-swallower or a nineteenth-century flea circus or an essay on the first time a magician made an elephant disappear.
For today’s trick, Max-Ernest removed the four jacks from his deck and fanned them out in front of Cass. “See these four jacks? They’re brothers and they don’t like being separated.”
He gathered up the jacks and placed them in different places in the deck, separating them — or seeming to. Then he cut the deck.
“Now, watch how the jacks all come back together —”
He riffled through the deck and showed her how they’d moved next to each other — or seemed to. “How ’bout that?”
He was getting better, thought Cass. But not that much better.
It didn’t help that Max-Ernest had a big pimple on the tip his nose. Between the pimple and his spiky hair — each strand, as always, cut exactly the same length — he looked more like a hedgehog than a magician.
“Pretty good,” said Cass diplomatically. “But I think I’ve seen the trick before — only with kings. And they weren’t brothers, they were friends.”
“That doesn’t make sense. Four kings would never be friends — they would be rivals, fighting over their kingdoms. And even if they weren’t fighting — I doubt they would have that many friends. It’s not very realistic —”
Cass was about to point out that sometimes brothers could be rivals. Like Pietro and Dr. L. They were twins — but also mortal enemies. At the same time, plenty of people had four friends or even more. Amber, for instance. Amber considered herself to be friends with their entire school.
But Cass decided not to say anything. You had to choose your battles with Max-Ernest. Otherwise, you would be arguing all day.
Besides, neither of them had very many friends; in that respect, he was correct. In fact, she was Max-Ernest’s only friend. And, as much as she hated to admit it, he was her only friend as well. (Unless you counted their old classmate, Benjamin Blake. But his parents had put him in a special school this year. And he’d never said that much anyway — at least that you could understand.)
“Well, I still wish you would concentrate on training for the Terces Society instead of magic tricks,” she said.
“We don’t even know what we’re training for!” said Max-Ernest, a little exasperated. “Besides, Pietro was a magician, wasn’t he?”
“You mean, he is — he’s still alive, remember?”
“We don’t know for sure. Somebody else might have written the letter who had the same initials. Or who was pretending to be him. Or maybe he died after writing it. I mean, it’s been four months. Why hasn’t the Terces Society contacted us again, if they even —”
Cass gave him a look. She hated it when he suggested that Pietro might be dead. Or that the Terces Society might not exist. She’d spent too much time preparing to contemplate such a thing.
“The letter said that Owen would come get us, and he will!” she said with more confidence than she felt.
Owen was the man who’d helped rescue them from the clutches of the Midnight Sun. He had a habit of switching identities, so for months Cass and Max-Ernest had scrutinized every face they encountered. But they’d never detected a single false mustache or fake accent. Or even any suspicious car accidents. (Owen was a terrible driver.)
“Well, maybe he already came,” Max-Ernest offered conciliatorily, “but it was like an abduction. We actually took our oaths under hypnosis, and now we’re operating under secret instructions —”
Cass laughed. If nothing else, Max-Ernest was always willing to consider all the possibilities.
“Was that funny?” he asked in surprise.
Cass nodded. He grinned. “How ’bout that?”
(To Cass’s chagrin, Max-Ernest’s magical aspirations had done nothing to diminish his previous, even more unlikely desire: to be a stand-up co-median.)
“Is that from your mom?” Max-Ernest asked, changing the subject. He was looking at the note still sticking halfway out of her lunch bag.

Irritated, Cass pulled it out. This is what it said:
Cass, here’s the grocery list for tomorrow —
MEAT — no need for A quality
DUCK (3) — tell butcher you owe — he’ll
understand
12 Potatoes, Mashed
Peanut Butter
Mother

Now that she was looking at the note, it seemed strange to Cass for several reasons:
First, her mother had gone to the grocery store yesterday.
Second, they’d never had a duck in her house — let alone three.
Third, her mother always bought potatoes whole, then mashed them at home. Cass wasn’t even sure you could buy premashed potatoes if you wanted to.
Fourth, her mother never signed her notes “Mother.” Usually, she just signed “M.” If she was feeling especially loving or playful she might write “Mommy.” Sometimes, when she wanted to show Cass she was treating her like a grown-up, she signed “Mel.”
But Mother? Not that Cass could remember.
A little feeling of excitement started tingling in her toes, bubbled through her stomach, then burst out of her mouth:
“Hey, look at this —” she whispered to Max-Ernest. “It’s from them. I know it. It’s in code. Can you believe they got it into my lunch?! It was only in my locker for an hour! Do you think Owen is here right now?”
She looked around. The only person she didn’t recognize was an Asian boy sitting at the next table, plugging his guitar into a little portable amplifier.
A frown appeared on Max-Ernest’s face as he studied the note.
“What — you don’t think it’s in code? It has to be. It’s definitely not from my mom.”
“No, I agree — it looks like it’s in code. It’s just kind of weird. . . .”
Surreptitiously, Max-Ernest pulled out what looked like a game player of some kind from his pocket. Sent to him by Pietro, the handheld device was actually the ULTRA-Decoder II. Specially designed for decrypting codes, it contained over a thousand languages and even more secret codes in its memory.
Holding the grocery list under the table, Max-Ernest pointed the Decoder at it and scanned.
“I dunno, the Decoder doesn’t pick up anything,” he whispered. “If it’s in code, there’s, like, no system to it. . . .”
Cass sighed. Could the note be from her mother after all?
“The Skelton Sisters gave it to me as a prize when I joined the Skelton One Hundred,” said a familiar, sugary voice.
It was Amber, walking by with her friend Veronica (the second prettiest girl in school, and not even the fourth or fifth nicest). As far as Cass knew, neither girl had yet turned thirteen. But somehow, over the summer, they’d aged by several years. It was the glittery makeup, Cass decided. (She couldn’t believe Mrs. Johnson let them wear it — never mind their mothers.) And the tight clothes.
Amber held up a sparkling pink cell phone decorated with a big red heart. “The ring tone automatically changes to a new Skelton Sisters song each time!” she bragged loudly enough so the entire school yard could hear. “So I’ll know all the songs by the time I go to the concert. If I get in — it’s almost sold out.”
(Romi and Montana Skelton were teenage twins who’d risen to fame on television and video but who now commanded a vast commercial empire —twin (heartsymbolhere) hearts TM inc— that produced everything from fuzzy pink backpacks to stinky sticks of lip gloss. Cass had a particular hatred for them — partly because Amber had a particular love for them.)
“Here, listen —”
Amber started pressing buttons on her phone, but before she could make it ring, the school yard was filled with the sound of feedback — and the twisting, sliding whine of an electric guitar. It was the new boy at the next table — channeling Jimi Hendrix.*
Cass laughed aloud. The timing was perfect — interrupting Amber just as she was about to subject them all to some awful Skelton Sisters song.
She looked over at the young guitarist. He was strumming and staring out into space, as if he were alone in a garage and not in school with hundreds of other people. He was tall for his age and he had a thick mop of long black hair that fell over his eyes. He wore bright green tennis shoes and a T-shirt bearing the words:

ALIEN EARACHE
We rock so hard they hear it on Mars!

“I bet that’s that new kid — from Japan,” Cass said to Max-Ernest. “Remember Mrs. Johnson made that announcement?”
Cass’s laugh, meanwhile, had not gone unnoticed by Amber.
“Hey, Cass . . . are you OK?” asked Amber, stopping at Cass’s table — but not without taking a good look at the guitar player first.
“Uh, yeah, I think so. . . .”
“Oh, good!” said Amber sweetly. “I was worried maybe that guitar hurt your ears —”
“No . . .” Cass didn’t like where Amber was heading.
“I just thought they would be really sensitive ’cause they’re so — you know.”
“No, we don’t know!” said Max-Ernest hotly. “Her ears are totally normal, Amber. She hears the same stuff you do.”
Cass’s ears, as everyone knew, were a sore subject for Cass. Not only were they big and pointy, like an elf’s, they also tended to turn bright red when she was angry or embarrassed or in any way upset.
Or when people talked about them.
At the moment, they were turning a violent shade of scarlet.
“Oh, hi, Max-Ernest!” said Amber, as if she’d only just seen him. “I totally didn’t mean it as an insult. But that’s so sweet the way you defend her! Are you guys, like, a couple now?”
Max-Ernest choked on the two identical carrot sticks he was eating. And then he turned very pale.
Amber glanced covertly at the guitar player to see if he was taking this all in. He didn’t seem to be.
“We are not a couple,” Cass said as calmly as she could — considering so much blood was rushing to her ears it felt like a firestorm. (The difference was, she had an asbestos blanket to ward off a real firestorm.)
“Oh, that’s too bad. You guys make such a cute couple,” said Veronica. “C’mon, Am —”
Stifling laughs, they sauntered away.
“Sorry. Forgot to check the volume, yo!” said the guitar player, sounding decidedly un-Japanese. He reached down to disconnect his instrument from his amplifier and turned his head toward the Nuts Table. “I heard that girl Amber was the nicest girl in school. Didn’t really seem like it.”
“Yeah, that’s kind of f-f-funny, huh,” stammered Cass, trying to cover her ears with her hair (which was very difficult because her hair was braided). “Anyway, don’t worry about it. I thought your playing was —” she searched for the word “— cool.”
“Thanks,” he said with a big smile. “I’m Yoji. You know, the new guy.”
“Yeah, we kind of guessed,” said Cass, desperately hoping her ears were turning back to normal.
“You can call me Yo-Yoji. If you want. That’s what my friends call me. . . .”
“OK. Hey, um, Yo-Yoji, I hate to break it to you, but you may have a little more apologizing to do —”
She nodded toward the principal, who was striding across the yard in Yoji’s direction, her big yellow hat flapping with each step.
Yoji made a face of exaggerated fear. “Uh-oh . . . Well, it was nice knowing you. Or meeting you — or whatever.”
“Yeah, nice to meet you, too. . . . Oh, I forgot — I’m Cass. And this is Max-Ernest. . . . Say hi, Max-Ernest.”
She tugged on her friend’s sleeve.
“Hi, Max-Ernest,” said Max-Ernest, who’d been stewing in tormented silence ever since Amber had asked if he and Cass were a couple.
Before Yo-Yoji could reply, Mrs. Johnson arrived at his table.
“Up!” she said. “Now march —” She pointed in the direction of her office. Yo-Yoji shrugged and headed off, guitar on his back.
Cass watched him go, wondering how this new, unexpected element might change the carefully controlled social environment of their school: did she need to take any precautions?
Suddenly, Max-Ernest sat up very straight. “That’s it!”
“What?” asked Cass, distracted.
“Meet. Look at the note. See how it says ‘Meat — no need for A quality’? What if that means no need for letter A? Because meat means meet. With an E.”
“So we have to meet somewhere? I knew it!” said Cass, forgetting all about Amber and Yo-Yoji and even her red ears. “What about the next line — ‘Duck (3)’?”
“‘Tell butcher you owe,’” Max-Ernest finished for her. “Well, that could be about the letters, too, I guess. If you was the letter U. And owe was O.”
“So then it’s MEET DOCK 3?”
Max-Ernest nodded. “And the rest is easy: ‘12 Potatoes, Mashed’ has to be 12 p.m. And Peanut Butter — that must be P.B.”
“Pietro Bergamo!”
“How ’bout that,” Max-Ernest said. “But I still think it’s weird he didn’t use a more normal code. There’s not even really a key.”
“So what — you figured it out, anyway! Just like I knew you would.”
Max-Ernest nodded, smiling, and wrote the decoded message next to the grocery list.
Meet Dock 3, 12 p.m., Pietro Bergamo

CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE
The TIDE POOL CAPER

Sick!” said Yo-Yoji.
Ankles under water, he was gently poking a large sea anemone with a stick — and the anemone’s translucent tendrils were closing tight in reaction.
Cass, Max-Ernest, Amber, and a few other students you probably wouldn’t recognize stood watching on the wet, moss-covered rocks.
“Sick? I think it’s neat-looking,” said Max-Ernest. “Kind of like an alien —”
“I think he means sick in a good way,” said Cass.
“Oh, yeah,” said Max-Ernest, a little confused.
“Well, I think it’s disgusting — in a bad way,” said Amber. “It looks like dog butt!”
Cass knew better than to argue, but she couldn’t resist. “It’s not disgusting. It’s natural. It’s a defense mechanism.”
“Actually, I think it thinks the stick is food,” said Max-Ernest. “The tentacles have poison on them, and they pull little fish and stuff into its mouth.”
“Actually, you’re all right — even Amber,” said their teacher, Mr. Needleman, stepping up to them. “Because a sea anemone’s mouth is also its anus. It eats out of its behind.”
“Eeew!” said Amber. “Eeew! Eeew! Eeew!”
“Well said,” said Mr. Needleman. “Now, Yoji, stop poking him, please. Cass, I’m surprised at you! — letting your new classmate torment the sea life like that.”
“Sorry,” said Cass, although she wasn’t sure why her teacher was making her apologize for somebody else. “Anyway, he wasn’t hurting him — I was watching.”
“OK, but I want you guys all to be more careful. See those —” He pointed to the spiky purple balls that lined the rocks like so many little porcupines. “Those are sea urchins. Please don’t step on them. Very painful. For you and the urchin.” Mr. Needleman chuckled. “But if you do happen to squish one by mistake, let me know — they make very good sushi.”
The kids all groaned.
Mr. Needleman had a flame-red beard and a flaring temper to match.
He’d arrived from New Zealand that fall, and Cass had been very excited to meet him because environmental science was her favorite subject and New Zealand was her favorite country. (She’d never been there but she’d read about it in her mother’s travel books: rain forests, glaciers, and volcanoes — all in one place!) But instead of treating her like a favorite student as she’d hoped and even sort of expected, Mr. Needleman had from the beginning singled her out for harsh treatment.
Cass didn’t know why exactly, except that their perspectives on the world were so different. Mr. Needleman considered himself a “proud skeptic” and a “debunker.” Which as far as Cass could tell meant that he made a lot of snide comments about global warming, or as he called it, “Global hokum.”
“Have you ever watched a weatherman on TV?” he asked whenever the subject came up. “Those kiwi-heads can’t predict the weather next week — how do you expect them to predict the weather in fifty years?”
As you can probably guess, this infuriated Cass, who considered herself an expert on all weather-related catastrophes.
But was that why he called on her whenever she drifted off for a second in class? Was that why he always claimed he was disappointed in her work?
Max-Earnest said Mr. Needleman just had high expectations because he respected her, but it certainly didn’t feel that way.
It was a cold and drizzly day, and the water was very rough.
By now, half the class had slipped on the rocks or stumbled into puddles; most of the others had been pushed into the ocean.
Cass and Max-Ernest had managed to stay dry — Cass because she was such a good rock hopper, Max-Ernest because he kept as far away from the water as possible. (As Cass had discovered at an especially inconvenient moment during their adventures at the Midnight Sun Spa, Max-Ernest didn’t know how to swim.) But they were irritable for another reason.
They’d been walking around the tide pools for over half an hour and they still hadn’t found a way to get away from the group.
Cass had intended to say she had to pee; after she left, Max-Ernest would say the same. But Mr. Needleman insisted that the teacher’s aide escort anyone who wanted to go to the bathroom; so that plan was out. Cass considered saying she was seasick and asking if she could walk back to the bus, but Max-Ernest, who was expert in all kinds of illness, pointed out that seasickness was something you got on a boat — it is a kind of motion sickness — and not something you got on the beach.
Beginning to grow frantic, Cass interrupted Mr. Needleman in the middle of an explanation of red tides and asked if their class was going to be allowed any free time to explore. “You’re always telling us to think for ourselves — how are we going to do that if we’re following you the whole time?”
Not many grown-ups would take that argument seriously. Mr. Needleman, however, seemed to have a sudden change of heart toward Cass. “You know, you’re absolutely right,” he said. Just like that.
Cass was so surprised she almost continued arguing.
Mr. Needleman told the class they could have a few minutes of freedom so long as everyone stayed within sight and no one poked the sea life.
Cass looked at her watch. It was ten minutes until noon.
Ten minutes until they were supposed to meet Pietro Bergamo, the long-lost magician.
Ten minutes until their lives as members of the Terces Society would officially begin.
They could just see a wharf — with three docks — on the opposite side of the bay, separated from the tide pools by several large rock outcroppings.
“Walk slow and pretend you’re just looking around,” Cass whispered to Max-Ernest.
As they approached the rocks, the tide pulled out, leaving a narrow strip of beach between the rocks and the churning water.
“C’mon!” said Cass.
Max-Ernest wavered. “But I —”
“Would you rather swim?”
By the time the tide returned, they were standing on a small patch of sand surrounded on all sides by jagged rocks — safe and dry, for the moment.
There was only one problem: Yo-Yoji had followed them.
“Yo, dudes, where you going?” he asked, wading through the surf.
Max-Ernest looked at Cass: now what?
Cass glanced at her watch: they had six minutes.
“Hey, Yo-Yoji. I know you don’t really know us very well, but . . . can you do us a huge favor?”
Yo-Yoji agreed to act as lookout, on one condition: that they tell him where they were going.
“OK,” said Cass quickly. “But can we tell you afterward?”
Without waiting for an answer, Cass nudged Max-Ernest forward.
Yo-Yoji watched, at once irritated and intrigued.
“Don’t forget the three-point rule!” he called after them.
“What’s that?” asked Max-Ernest.
“Always make sure that two hands and one foot, or two feet and one hand, are touching the rock beneath you,” said Cass, flashing a smile at Yo Yoji. She thought she was the only person who knew that!
And then she started up the rocks.
Max-Ernest waited only until the tide came in and splashed his ankles.
As they ran along the beach on the other side of the rocks, they found their way blocked by a crumbling shack — an old tackle shop — decorated with a life preserver that looked like a shark had taken a bite out of it. A hand-painted sign advertised “Live Bait.”

LIVE BAIT

Cass and Max-Ernest both wrinkled their noses: the scent of rotten fish filled the air.
They walked around the shack as quietly as possible. But when they got to the other side, it was boarded up; nobody in sight.
Until they heard a familiar New Zealand accent:
“Cassandra? Max-Ernest? I know you kiwi-heads are out here!”
The two kiwi-heads just had time to slip under a mound of fishnets before Mr. Needleman’s ankles came into view.
Flies buzzed around their noses and unidentified crawling things started investigating their legs. It was excruciating.
“Come out now and nobody will know,” shouted Mr. Needleman. “Otherwise, I’m warning you — I’ll have you suspended!”
How had Mr. Needleman known where to look for them? Cass wondered. If it was Yo-Yoji, she was going to make him pay!
Mr. Needleman picked up a fishing spear that had been leaning against the shack and held it aloft. With his bushy red beard, he looked almost like a Viking. Or some threatening sea god.
Did he plan to have them suspended or did he plan to impale them right then and there?
Cass felt a tapping on her shoulder. She looked over at Max-Ernest in annoyance; why would he risk movement at a time like this?
He tapped her again: Two long taps. Three short.
Morse code.
Cass knew three short taps represented an S. (Everyone knows SOS is three short, three long, three short.) But what did two long taps represent?
Then she remembered that she and Max-Ernest had once taught themselves the Morse code for Morse code. It started with two long.
Two long was M.
MS.
Midnight Sun! Of course! thought Cass, feeling a wave of nausea come over her. Max-Ernest was saying that Mr. Needleman was part of the Midnight Sun.
Now that Cass was looking at her teacher (or at least at his legs) in this light it seemed so obvious. His sudden appearance at their school. The way he singled her out.
Was that why he’d arranged the field trip? Was that why he’d so easily let them have free time to explore?
And now he planned to murder them without any witnesses.
Well, if so, he wasn’t going to succeed — yet.
Mr. Needleman took one more look around and started walking away.
A low, rusting metal gate blocked the way to Dock 3. A chain lock hung loose, swinging in the wind and clanging repeatedly.

NO TRESPASSING

“Maybe we should wait here,” said Max-Ernest nervously.
“Where Mr. Needleman can see us?”
Cass pulled open the gate, revealing a rotting wooden stairway that looked like it might collapse if anyone stepped foot on it.
Which Cass proceeded to do without pause.
Gingerly, Max-Ernest followed.
The long, narrow dock was deserted — save for a few small, barnacle-encrusted boats. Other than the cries of seagulls and an occasional splash when the tide pushed a boat into the deck, there was total silence.
Max-Ernest shivered. “It’s like a ghost town. Only with boats. I really think we should go —”
“Would you just be quiet for a second?” whispered Cass. “Look out there —”
A large ship was pulling into the harbor. She (you always refer to a boat in the feminine) had four tall masts and a dozen billowing square sails — like an old Spanish galleon in a pirate movie.* Yet the ship sparkled like new, its black hull so glossy it reflected the water. While they watched, the sun broke through the clouds, illuminating the sails and turning the ship a brilliant gold.
As the ship came closer, sails were lowered to slow its speed, and a man was suddenly visible standing near the prow. (For anyone who has as much trouble with directions as I do, the prow is the front of a ship — as opposed to the stern, which is the back.) They couldn’t see his face, but he looked like a picture-perfect yachtsman. He wore a white hat, a navy jacket, and . . . was he was looking at them?
Yes — better yet, he was waving at them.
Cass looked at her watch. Noon exactly.
She broke into a smile. Could this be it? Had this fantastic ship come just for them? Was this how they were to going to go meet the Terces Society? How grand!
“Where do you guys think you’re going?!”
They turned to see Mr. Needleman striding toward them, diving spear in hand.
Cass grabbed Max-Ernest by the hand and they started running down the dock.
Behind them, Mr. Needleman picked up his pace.
A gangplank had been lowered for them (the wide kind with arm rails, not the narrow kind you see in movies, although I agree that would have been more dramatic) and Cass and Max-Ernest ran up it without stopping.
Until they saw the man standing at the top.
Then they froze no less instantaneously than if he had some terrible superpower that turned his victims into ice sculptures on a giant seafood buffet.
It was the last face on earth they’d expected to see.
The last face on earth they’d wanted to see.
Cass and Max-Ernest looked over their shoulders; running back toward Mr. Needleman suddenly seemed like an attractive option. But he was gone.
Worse, the gangplank was starting to rise and crewmen were already casting off. They would never make the jump.
They turned back to confront this new seafaring version of their old enemy — Dr. L.
The man laughed, seeing their expressions.
“Why so shocked? Did you not remember that Luciano — that Dr. L — and I are twins? I am Pietro. Welcome aboard!”
Half laughing, half crying with relief, Cass and Max-Ernest each shook the man’s hand and then scrambled onto the boat.
They were safe!

CHAPTER THIRTY
At Sea

Hard alee!”
The ship tacked to the left and leaned precipitously.
Cass and Max-Ernest grabbed each other, laughing, as a spray of water hit them in the face.
Around them, the crew hoisted and foisted. Sails whipped in the wind — until they caught and went taut. And everywhere the ship’s brass fittings flared in the sun.
“Don’t worry, this ship is sound!” shouted their host, leading them onto a wooden deck so swabbed and polished that it shined like glass. “She may be two hundred years old, but she’s armed with all the latest technology!”
“We’re not worried!” Cass shouted back. How could they be? The ship was glorious to behold.
And yet, she couldn’t help noticing, she couldn’t help feeling, this man so closely resembled Dr. L it was unnerving. He had the same perfect silver hair that seemed frozen in some kind of eternal wind. The same perfect tan skin and perfect white teeth that made him look more like a photograph than a person. The same distinctively indistinctive accent.
How was it that in Cass’s imagination Pietro hadn’t resembled his brother in the least? Usually, she’d pictured a long, snowy beard, twinkling eyes, and a wizard’s cloak — or, sometimes, a tuxedo and a top hat. Occasionally, she’d imagined an old adventurer in a pith helmet. But never him. Never this.
She shook off the thought. Here at last was her adventure. The one she’d been waiting for for so long. Enjoy it, she told herself.
“Cassandra, Max-Ernest — can you tighten this line for me?” their host asked. “That’s a winch. You crank it this way —”
He started the job for them. Then said, “I’ve got to get something below. Back in a minute,” and he headed away.
Thrilled to be given a task, Cass tossed her backpack aside and joined hands with Max-Ernest. Together they began to tighten a line to the ship’s rearmost sail.
And then, suddenly, the line went slack.
Before they knew what was happening, the rope was looped around them and they were pulled off their feet. They fell together onto the hardwood deck and slid across the polished surface.
“Hey!” said Cass.
“Ow!” said Max-Ernest.
Roughly, a deckhand began to tie Cass and Max-Ernest to each other back-to-back.
“What are you doing?!” Cass cried. “Pietro! Where are you?”
“Stop that! That hurts!” protested Max-Ernest.
“You won’t struggle if you know what’s good for you!” threatened the deckhand. He tied their hands together for good measure, then left them lying in shock on the deck.
“You think this is like a test — to see how we would act if we were captured?” asked Cass, fighting back tears.
“Maybe, unless — oh no! Look —” Max-Ernest nodded upward with his nose.
From their new vantage point, they could see for the first time the flag flapping in the wind on top of the boat’s tallest mast.
I wish I could tell you it was the flag of the Terces Society. Or, for that matter, the flag of the Royal Navy or the merchant marine. Or even that it was a skull and crossbones — surely a pirate ship would have been preferable to the reality.
Alas, the flag was none of those things.
Rather, it showed a white sun emblazoned on a black background.
The flag of the Midnight Sun.
Although tied back-to-back and unable to see each other, Cass and Max-Ernest shared the same expression of despair.
They were prisoners. Again.
And nobody — not even the Terces Society — knew.
“What are those?”
A minute later, two skeletally skinny girls — twins — hovered over Cass and Max-Ernest, eyeing the ship’s new captives with lazy curiosity.
Aside from their differently colored hair (one was blonde with pink streaks, the other brown with purple streaks) and differently colored bikinis (one was pink with purple polka dots, the other purple with pink polka dots), they looked nearly identical.
Judging by their faces, they might have been about sixteen or seventeen, but I wouldn’t try to guess their real ages. They were, after all, part of the Midnight Sun. As Cass and Max-Ernest could tell immediately by the gloves on their hands.
“Those what?” asked the purple-er one.
“Them,” said the pinker one, pointing with a curl of her toe. She moved with an odd jerkiness — as if she were a marionette on a string.
“Oh, those,” said the purple-er one.
“Yeah, Elf Ears and Electro Hair,” said the pinker one.
Only now did Cass and Max-Ernest realize that it was they who were being spoken about. In the third person.
“I’m Cass. This is Max-Ernest,” said Cass, forcing herself to speak boldly. “There was a terrible mistake. Please, could you —”
“Elf is a Cass. Electro is a Max-Ernest,” said the purple-er one, ignoring Cass.
“Oh. Well, what’s that, then?”
“I just told you — it’s a Cass.”
“No, that — that thing!” said the pinker one. She pointed her toe at Cass’s sock-monster, hanging from Cass’s backpack — a few feet out of Cass’s reach.
“Oh, that. That is so cute. I so want it!”
“Well, I so want it more!”
“But you said you don’t know what it is. . . .”
“Neither do you!”
“So?”
“So there.”
“Hey, that’s my sock-monster, and you can both have him — if you untie us,” said Cass, desperate. “I’ll even make you another one.”
The girls stared at Cass as if she had just levitated or turned into a frog.
“No way! I think it just told us to do something!” said the purple-er one.
“No way! I’m taking that thing. Just to show it a lesson.”
“No way! I’m taking it —”
They both lunged for Cass’s sock-monster — and slammed into each other. Their bony bodies toppled to the ground, right on top of Cass and Max-Ernest. Their suntanned skin was unexpectedly clammy and cold — and made Cass and Max-Ernest’s skin grow cold in turn.
“It’s mine!”
“No, it’s mine!”
The ghoulish girls each pulled on one of the sock-monster’s tennis shoe tongue ears trying to tear the sock-monster away from the other.
“Hey, leave us — I mean them, I mean it — alone!” said Max-Ernest, sounding unusually brave and force-ful, if a little confused.
“Having fun, children?” asked an icy voice that will be unmistakable to readers of my first book, but that would, I think, send chills down the spines of anyone unlucky enough to hear it.
Even the two sisters seemed to feel it; they shrank away from Cass and Max-Ernest, leaving the sock-monster lying on the deck.
Yes, I’m afraid the voice belonged to Ms. Mauvais.
In contrast to the loud, clacking sisters, she walked toward Cass and Max-Ernest with an almost preternatural calm.
Although dressed for the sea in gleaming white, Ms. Mauvais seemed to carry with her a kind of darkness. No friend of the sun, she exposed hardly a speck of skin to the elements. To shade her face, she wore a hat with a brim so broad she appeared to be sprouting wings. To shield her eyes, she wore a pair of mirrored sunglasses so enormous they gave her head the look of a space alien or maybe a gigantic fly. And to cover her ancient clawlike hands, the sight of which Cass and Max-Ernest remembered with such horror, she wore long white gloves that made her arms look like the limbs of an albino praying mantis.
Of Ms. Mauvais herself, you could see only a mouth — admittedly an exquisitely beautiful and evermore youthful-looking mouth — and even that she’d covered with a frosty white lipstick that glittered with an unnatural phosphorescence.
“Ah, Max-Ernest, darling! And my dear Cassandra,” cried Ms. Mauvais, circling her captives so she could get a good look at both of them. “To happy reunions!” She raised her cocktail glass, ice tinkling in tune with her voice.
I wouldn’t call it that, Cass thought grimly.
“I see you’ve met Romi and Montana Skelton.”
So these were the famous Skelton Sisters? Cass marveled. What a sick joke! Max-Ernest had been right months ago when he mistakenly referred to them as the Skeleton Sisters. Had Cass not been tied up on an enemy ship far out at sea and been certain to die any moment, she might have laughed.
“I’m afraid I still don’t see the family resemblance.” Ms. Mauvais chuckled drily.*
“Well, have they told you where he is?” asked Dr. L, emerging from belowdecks — for of course it had been he, not Pietro, who’d welcomed them onto the ship.
“Not yet, darling. I was just getting to it,” Ms. Mauvais answered.
How could she have let this awful, plastic man convince her he was Pietro? Cass wondered.
True, he and Pietro were twins. But, as Cass and Max-Ernest well knew, Dr. L had gone to great, even murderous lengths to stay so young, so handsome. Even if he wasn’t the bearded wizard of her fantasies, Pietro would have looked much older by now. Older and wiser. Older and kinder.
Come to think of it, would a Terces Society boat look anything like this shiny ship? A Terces vessel, Cass suddenly felt sure, would be smaller and scrappier, fit for stealthy missions and dangerous adventures. This Midnight Sun ship was better fit for a pleasure cruise.
Or maybe a television ad.
She’d been so desperate to join the Terces Society that she’d been willing to believe anything.
Ms. Mauvais turned back to Cass and Max-Ernest. “Well?”
“Well . . . w-w-what?” stammered Max-Ernest.
“Where. Is. He?” asked Ms. Mauvais, stone-faced.
“Where is who?” asked Cass, confused. “Pietro?”
“The homunculus, fool!”
“The hom — what?” asked Max-Ernest.
“THE HOMUNCULUS! I’m warning you, don’t play with me.”
“Believe me, we would never play with you,” said Cass.
“We don’t even know what a homunculus is,” said Max-Ernest. “Well, I don’t know what it is. And if I don’t know, I doubt she knows. Not that she doesn’t know things that I don’t know, but this kind of —”
“Silence!”
Ms. Mauvais picked up Cass’s battered sock-monster and dangled it in front of them as if it were a dead mouse. “What, pray tell, is this?!”
“My sock-monster — I made it.”
“I see. And whom was it modeled after? Tell me that!”
“Nobody. He’s just made from a sock.” Cass certainly wasn’t about to say he was modeled after a creature in her dreams.
“You expect me to believe this thing isn’t supposed to be a homunculus? You must think me very dumb.”
“Hey, give that to us!” / “Yeah, give it to us!” said Romi and Montana, who’d perked up as soon as the sock-monster was mentioned.
Ms. Mauvais eyed them in irritation. “Don’t you girls have a concert to prepare for?”
She tossed the sock-monster to them, and they chased after it like two ungainly puppies after a ball. Cass watched sadly — now she’d never get her sock-monster back.
“You needn’t bother pretending,” said Dr. L. “We know you’re members of the Terces Society now. Or have you forgotten how we got you here?”
“But we’re not pretending!” cried Cass.
“If you tell us where the homunculus is, we’ll give you a life preserver when we toss you over, and there’s a chance — a small chance — that someone will save you. Otherwise —”
“Otherwise, our chef is very eager to make shark fin soup, but so far all we’ve been able to catch is tuna,” said Ms. Mauvais.*
She gestured toward three deckhands who were wrestling with an enormous tuna. It thrashed wildly until one of the men slit its belly with a knife. Guts spilled onto the deck.
“We’ve been looking for the right bait,” said Dr. L. “If you don’t tell us, we’ll make sure you’re both dripping plenty of blood before we drop you in the ocean.”
Cass and Max-Ernest gripped each other’s hands.
“Did you know sharks smell blood from over a mile away?” continued Dr. L. “It’s a unique evolutionary feature.”
“They also sense electricity and movement,” said Max-Ernest, unable to stop himself. “They call it shark sense. How ’bout that?”
“Very good,” said Dr. L, not looking like he particularly meant it. “So try not to splash when you hit the water.”
“Unfortunately, we don’t have time for marine biology lessons,” said Ms. Mauvais. “The Midnight Sun has been waiting five hundred years for the homunculus to rise. We will not wait any longer.”
She waved to one of the deckhands chopping up the tuna. “You there — take these kids below!”
Then she turned back to Cass and Max-Ernest. “You destroyed our lives once,” she said with a voice as cold and smoky and unnatural as dry ice. “But with your help we’re going to live forever.”
Not bothering to wipe the fish guts off his hands, the deckhand grabbed Cass and Max-Ernest by their ears and dragged them away — right past the Skelton Sisters, who were lying on deck chairs in the sun, Cass’s sock-monster perched between them.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
AN ITCH

Max-Ernest had an itch. It was under his toe.
The second toe — counting from the outside — of his left foot, to be exact. And Max-Ernest was always exact.
No, wait, that was wrong.
The itch was under his middle toe. Yes, the middle toe. That was it.
Max Ernest tried to wiggle the toe without wiggling the others. But before he’d managed a proper wiggle, the itch had, oh no! moved under his fourth —
No, darn it. It had moved again. Up this time. To the top of his big toe. No, to the top of his foot. It was, Max-Ernest had no choice but to admit now, a traveling itch.
The very worst kind.
His brain instructed his hand to scratch his foot — but for some reason he couldn’t move. His hand was stuck behind his back.
He opened his eyes. The room was dark, but even so he could tell he wasn’t in either of his two bedrooms. The smell was different.
Sort of a musty, dusty smell. But also salty. Like the sea.
Where was he?
“Max-Ernest,” Cass whispered. “Are you awake?”
Oh, he thought, relieved. He must have slept over at Cass’s. But, then, why would her room feel like it was — swaying?
“What time is it?” he answered. “I have this really bad itch. It feels like a bug is crawling up my leg. Or maybe I have a rash. Or eczema. But I don’t usually get eczema on my foot, so —”
“Shh! Forget eczema! Have you forgotten that we’re stuck on a boat in the middle of the ocean and they’re going to feed us to —”
“Hey, we’re tied up!”
“Duh! And stop moving, it hurts my hands!”
“Sorry.” Now that he was thinking about it, Max-Ernest realized his hands hurt as well. In fact, his whole body hurt. He wasn’t sure what was worse — the pain or the itching.
“So what do you think we should do?” asked Cass.
“Me? You’re always the one with the escape plans.”
“Well, I don’t have one now. And my backpack is over there in the corner. I can’t reach any of my supplies.”
“So we’re just going to die?”
She didn’t answer. She didn’t have to.
They sat for a moment in scared silence.
Then Max-Ernest had an idea —
“I told you, stop moving!”
“I know — I’m just checking for slack. I’ve been reading this book by Houdini and —”
“Houdini?”
“Yeah, Harry Houdini, the escape artist. Most famous magician of all time.”
“I know who he is!”
“Well, he says the mistake people make when they tie someone up is that they use too much rope. Then there’s always slack. See —”
He tugged on the rope to show her.
“Now, take your shoes off —”
“What? How?”
“You know, push them off with your feet. It’ll be easier to get out of the ropes. Houdini always took his shoes off before trying one of his escapes.”
“I can’t believe you’re trying a Houdini act,” muttered Cass, but she pushed her shoes off just as he instructed. A little, just a little, impressed.
Max-Ernest explained that in his escape acts Houdini never used magic or illusions; he used strength — and a few tricks like swelling up his chest in a special way. Usually, Houdini could escape faster than the time it took to tie him up.
It took Max-Ernest much longer than it would have taken Houdini — twenty-seven minutes. For one thing, he wasn’t a trained escape artist. For another, Cass kept counterwriggling his wriggles. Until finally, he told her to keep still.
Just as the rope was beginning to loosen —
Footsteps.
Quickly, they retied themselves and pretended to be asleep.
A deckhand shone a flashlight at them from the doorway — then, thankfully, he walked away.
Eventually, the rope dropped to the floor. Breathing heavily, they staggered to their feet.
“We did it. How ’bout that?” Max-Ernest whispered.
“You did it. How ’bout that?” said Cass. “Guess those magic books weren’t such a waste of time, after all.” She smiled in the dark.
Max-Ernest smiled back. It wasn’t often that Cass admitted she was wrong.
Cass picked up her backpack and started gathering all the survivalist supplies that had been left strewn across the floor.
When her hand found her flashlight, she immediately turned it on.
The room, they saw now, was some kind of cargo hold. Around them sat piles of what looked like plundered treasure — as if they were in a pirate ship, after all.
Here an archaeologist might have been able to reconstruct the history of the Midnight Sun:
There were Egyptian statuettes with the heads of jackals and large Greek vases decorated with scenes of battle. Medieval helmets and suits of armor. Gothic paintings and crystal goblets.
Along one wall sat the remnants of a sixteenth-century laboratory: old test tubes and decanters, weights and scales. And along the opposite wall sat remnants of an eighteenth-century library: old maps and globes, and stacks of books of all shapes and sizes.
Many of the books were charred around the edges — as if they’d been pulled out of a fire. And, indeed, they had — the fire at the Midnight Sun Spa. The fire that Cass and Max-Ernest themselves had set while rescuing their classmate Benjamin Blake.
“We should get out of here — while it’s still dark outside,” said Cass.
“I know — just give me some light for a second.”
Max-Ernest held a large leather-bound volume in his hands. Emerald green and embossed in gold, it was entitled The Dictionary of Alchemy.
As Cass trained the flashlight on the pages, he flipped through them until he found the entry he was looking for.
“Look —”

Homunculus
TO MOST PEOPLE, A HOMUNCULUS IS JUST A SMALL MAN OR DWARF. BUT TO AN ALCHEMIST, THE WORD HAS A SPECIAL MEANING: A MAN-MADE MAN.
IN THE MIDDLE AGES AND LATER, MANY ALCHEMISTS BELIEVED THAT — IF THEY ONLY FOUND THE RIGHT RECIPE — THEY COULD CREATE A MINIATURE HUMAN BEING IN A BOTTLE. A FEW NOTORIOUS ALCHEMISTS EVEN CLAIMED TO HAVE SUCCEEDED.
REPORTS VARIED AS TO WHAT INGREDIENTS WORKED BEST. BUT IT WAS COMMONLY UNDERSTOOD THAT THE BOTTLE HAD TO BE BURIED IN MUD OR DUNG FOR THE HOMUNCULUS TO GROW. . . .

Our two friends stared, dumbfounded, at the page in front of them.
No doubt they were startled to read about a miniature man grown in a bottle. But it wasn’t only the definition of the word that shocked them; it was also the illustration that accompanied the definition:
It was just a black-and-white drawing small enough to fit on a box of matches. Nonetheless, they could see the same bulging eyes and floppy ears, the same big nose and little body.
There was no mistaking it: the homunculus looked just like Cass’s sock-monster.
“Have you seen this before?” whispered Max- Ernest.
“No — I swear.”
“Then how come —?”
“I don’t know — I don’t understand.”
It was true — she’d never even heard of a homunculus before. She was just as surprised as he was.
Cass replayed her dreams in her head: how was it possible?
She shivered as the eerie graveyard tune came back to her unbidden.
Then, suddenly: voices.
Cass turned off her flashlight.
“Are you so certain we must catch the homunculus? There’s no other way?”
Dr. L.
He sounded so close — it was if they were in the same room.
Cass and Max-Ernest crouched behind a large trunk, hardly daring to breathe.
“Yes, I’m certain! Am I ever not?” Ms. Mauvais responded shrilly.
“Where are they?” Max-Ernest whispered in Cass’s ear.
Cass clamped her hand over his mouth. He nodded, pushing her hand off: I get the message.
“You were certain that thing would help us find him — the Sound Prism. And has it?”
“No one else knows where the grave is!” said Ms. Mauvais, ignoring the question. “The homunculus is the key.”
They couldn’t be in here, Cass thought. There’d been no footsteps. No door opening. And yet —
“What about those kids?”
Max-Ernest gestured in the darkness to the trunk in front of them: Dr. L’s voice seemed to be coming from inside!
The both put their ears up against it.
“What about them?!” Ms. Mauvais hissed. Her voice also seemed to come from inside the trunk. “They obviously know nothing. . . .”
Shaking, Cass turned her flashlight back on. If they were seen, it would all be over. But she had to know.
No. They were alone. She and Max-Ernest both exhaled, relieved.
The trunk was dark and heavy-looking and long enough to hold, well, a lot of things.
“Go on,” Max-Ernest, whispered. “Open it.”
“No, you —” said Cass, uncharacteristically reticent.
Max-Ernest shook his head vigorously.
Cass shrugged — and sprang the latches.
I’m not sure what they expected to find inside the trunk — Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais lying like vampires in a coffin? — but what they saw was:
Nothing. Nobody.
Just a ball sitting on a blanket. Or that’s what it looked like to them. You would have recognized it as something else.
(And while I’m on the subject, will you please congratulate me for writing about the Sound Prism, not to mention Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais, without even blinking? I think I’ve acted quite courageously, thank you very much.)
The voices continued, louder:
“At least they won’t trouble us again . . . right, my darling doctor?”
A cruel laugh. “Let’s make sure of it.”
Cass looked behind the trunk — there wasn’t a mouse, let alone an evil doctor or a scarily ageless woman.
“You think there’s some kind of ventilation system that carries their voices?” she asked.
“Highly unlikely. This a boat, not an office building. And I don’t see any vents. Or even any windows. Unless —”
“It has to be the ball,” said Cass, leaning in closer to look at it.
“You mean, like, it’s some kind of eavesdropping device? Like a baby monitor? Or a walkie-talkie? But that doesn’t really make sense — it doesn’t even look like it has a battery. It just looks like a bunch of straws bundled together —”
Cass picked up the ball and illuminated it with her flashlight; it was strange and beautiful and unlike anything she’d ever seen.
“I think it looks like it comes from the sea.”
“Like it was part of a tropical reef or something? I guess I can see that,” said Max-Ernest. “With hundreds of tiny fish darting in and out of those tiny holes.”
Cass held the ball to her ear and started turning it in her hand. Sure enough, all kinds of sounds immediately flooded her senses: Max-Ernest breathing next to her. The lapping of water against the sides of the boat. Even a whale call far out in the sea.
It was like spinning a radio dial and hearing different frequencies come in and out of range.
Was the ball really an eavesdropping device? It seemed too beautiful for such a criminal purpose.
“Listen to this —” She held it up to Max- Ernest’s ear.
“What? Is it supposed to sound like the ocean? Only conch shells do that. It comes from the way air passes through — oh wait, wow!”
“I’m taking it with us,” said Cass, pulling it away from him.
“But that’s stealing!”
“So what. They kidnapped us. They’re murderers. For all we know, we’re saving somebody’s life by taking it.”
“Hm, I don’t know if that makes any sense,” said Max-Ernest, but he made no move to stop her.
They tiptoed out of the cargo hold and crept cautiously up the stairs to the stateroom level. There they walked down a long narrow hallway with a thick white carpet and gleaming mahogany walls lit by small yellow lamps.
As they passed a row of closed doors, Cass held the purloined ball to her ear, listening to the snoring of the crew. Silently, she gave Max-Ernest the OK sign.
The hall ended in a luxurious living room, furnished entirely in white and built in a circle around a glossy black floor.
Glancing down at her reflection, Cass remembered an awful moment at the Midnight Sun Spa. She’d been looking in the mirror when Ms. Mauvais had crept up on her and commented cruelly on her ears, guessing correctly that Cass’s mother’s ears were much prettier.
Where, then, Cass wondered fleetingly now, did she get hers? From the father she’d never met?
Max-Ernest grabbed her arm, snapping her out of her reverie: beneath them, a long, undulating jellyfish was briefly illuminated, swimming under the ship’s hull. The floor was glass.
A loud gurgling startled them. The jellyfish?
“I think somebody just went to the bathroom,” Cass whispered, listening with the ball to the sound of a toilet flushing.
They waited a moment, tense. There were footsteps — but they faded away. Nobody appeared.
Still on tiptoe, they headed for the spiral staircase that led up to the deck.
It was a clear, starry night. The anchored boat swayed gently.
They scanned the horizon — there was no land in sight, nor a single other ship. Cass turned the ball around in her hand but it didn’t pick up anything beyond the cry of seagulls and the crashing of waves.
“My backpack floats — and it’s waterproof,” whispered Cass as she carefully placed the ball inside it. “You think we can survive out there until help comes? I have some trail mix —”
“You want me to go in the water? Did you forget I can’t swim!? Plus, what about dehydration? And hypothermia! And that jellyfish!”
“OK, so then what, Houdini?”
“Don’t you think there’s a life raft or something?”
As quietly as they could, they walked the length of the vessel, looking for a raft.
They stopped at the captain’s deck where, as if turned by an invisible hand, a steering wheel rotated back and forth in time with the rocking of the ship.
Behind them, a light went on —
Ms. Mauvais was visible in silhouette. “Who’s out there? Romi? Montana?”
Cass and Max-Ernest inched into the shadows. Then stood frozen for what seemed like forever but was really less than a minute — until the light went out.
Exhales.
They crept back down the other side of the ship but didn’t see a raft — or even a life preserver.
“Look —” whispered Max-Ernest.
Cass followed his gaze — and shuddered.
Two large hands were grasping the side of the boat — just like in her dream! Could it be . . . ?
As they watched in fearful fascination, a dripping man pulled himself over the rail and onto the deck.
“Mr. Needleman?!” exclaimed Cass.
He nodded, smiling mischievously under his wet beard. “You guys are really holding up the class.”
“But how did you get here?”
Mr. Needleman put his finger to his lips. “Later. Right now I want to you to get ready to jump.”
“Are we in big trouble?” asked Max-Ernest.
“Jump!” Mr. Needleman commanded, pointing over the side of the ship. “Or do you want to wait until somebody sees you?”
They looked over the edge. The ocean was dark and foreboding — and awfully far down. A few yards from the ship, an empty speedboat rocked back and forth in the water.
“Now!”
Mr. Needleman grabbed each of them by the wrist and — before Max-Ernest could explain that he was afraid of heights or that jumping made his nose bleed or even that he couldn’t swim — they jumped off.
Plunging feetfirst into a cold black ocean in the middle of the night isn’t like diving into a warm swimming pool in the middle of the day.
Just in case you thought it was.
Max-Ernest, of course, hadn’t experienced either before. He’d never been underwater.
He thought he was dead.
Not dying. Not drowning. Dead.
Why else would he not know which direction was up? For what other reason would he feel so much pressure on his chest and in his ears? In what other state would he be so totally and completely cold?
Never mind that he was safe in Mr. Needleman’s grip the entire time.
“I’m alive!” he cried when they surfaced. “I’m alive!!!”
“Shh!” said Cass, coughing for air on the other side of Mr. Needleman. “Do you want them to hear?”
The small boat nearly capsized as they climbed aboard. It wasn’t made for passengers.
“Thanks, guys,” said Mr. Needleman when they’d all managed to sit up — clothes drenched, teeth chattering, but, as Max-Ernest so succinctly put it, alive. “We couldn’t have located the Midnight Sun without you. Congratulations!”
“F-for w-what?” asked Cass, confused. She’d just noticed that Mr. Needleman had lost his New Zealand accent.
“For completing your first Terces mission, of course.”
As Cass and Max-Ernest watched in astonishment, Mr. Needleman reached up to the side of his face and ripped off his beard.
“Ouch!” he exclaimed, wincing.
It was Owen.

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
OWEN?!

Did you see that coming?
Did you have your hand up — oh oh oh oh oh oh! — dying to say who it was? Or were you surprised when he pulled off his beard?
Don’t be ashamed. I was almost surprised myself, and I knew Mr. Needleman was really the Terces Society spy all along.
As for Cass and Max-Ernest, they nearly fell off the boat, they were so shocked.
In the past they’d known Owen as a shy stutterer, a cocky surfer, and a mischievous Irishman. But their science teacher? Cass’s tormentor?!
They would have barraged the former Mr. Needleman with questions, but his speedboat made so much noise nobody could hear a thing. He drove so fast that the fan of water behind them rose a hundred feet in the air — well, ten feet in the air, anyway. (Since Max-Ernest was there, I’m afraid to exaggerate.)
Thanks to Owen’s nautical skills, or perhaps just to his recklessness, the Midnight Sun never caught up with them.
But the coast guard did. And that was nearly as frightening.
Less than an hour after escaping from the Midnight Sun, and still miles from shore, they found themselves blinded by a searchlight.
“You, there! Stop!”
Owen quickly threw a tarp over Cass and Max-Ernest before slowing down the speedboat.
They waited. Huddled together like a couple of sardines from the day’s catch.
“Are we in a pu-pu-puddle?” Max-Ernest shiver-whispered to Cass.
“Doesn’t ma-matter when your clothes are already we-wet.”
“But wh-what about hypothermia?”
Cass touched her arm in the darkness.
She thought a minute. “Can you touch your thumb with your little finger?”
They both could.
Cass gave Max-Ernest a thumbs-up. Safe. Momentarily.
A coast guard officer explained over a booming loudspeaker that a couple of students named Cass and Max-Ernest had gone missing. Their school was afraid that they might have stolen a boat from the harbor, then gotten lost at sea. “When I get my hands on those two punks, I’m going to wring their little necks. I haven’t gotten a wink of sleep all night, thanks to them!”
“I don’t know anybodies by the names of Lass or Mack Sernis,” Owen shouted back. “But if they’re still out heaya, they’re wicked lucky to be alive!”
“Well, if you see anything, call us on the radio!”
After the coast guard boat had disappeared, Owen pulled the tarp off the young stowaways.
“The Midnight Sun will eat those guys for dinnah,” he said, grinning.
“What kind of accent is that?” Cass asked, remarking on the sudden change in Owen.
“Boston. Can’t you tell? I’m a lobstah fisherman.”
Cass laughed through chattering teeth.
It was dawn by the time they reached land.
Owen swore up and down that he’d never intended for Cass and Max-Ernest to board the Midnight Sun’s ship, only for them to lure the ship to the docks — so he could put a tracer on the hull. But just in case the field trip was unexpectedly prolonged, he had stashed his car nearby.
Cass and Max-Ernest groaned when they saw the old VW bug: another wild ride lay ahead.
As they climbed in, Cass pulled the bungee cord belt she was wearing off of her cargo pants. She strapped herself to the side of her door, and then to Max-Ernest.
“Just a precaution. The percentage of traumatic brain injury related to car accidents is staggering.”
Max-Ernest grinned; the survivalist was back in action.
“Hold on, Lass and Mack!” The car exploded into drive.
Lass and Mack both came close to regurgitating the dinner they never had.
“So are you taking us to meet Pietro now?” Cass shouted over the roar of the engine. “Aren’t we supposed to go to a meeting?”
Owen looked over his shoulder. “First rule of the Terces Society — no meetings. Too boring!”
“Really?” asked Max-Ernest.
Owen laughed. “No. The reason is we don’t like too many members in one place at once. Less chance we’ll all be killed.”
“Grilled?”
“KILLLED!”
“Oh. Right.” Max-Ernest gulped.
Owen slowed the car just enough so they could hear.
“You’ll meet Pietro soon enough. For now, just keep an eye on each other. If you think you see the Midnight Sun lurking around, report back to us right away.”
“But what about our next mission?” Cass asked. “What about the Oath of Terces?”
“Later.”
Cass felt as if she’d been demoted — like a police detective taken off the street and given a desk job.
Worse: Owen said he wouldn’t be going back to school with them. Now that the Midnight Sun had seen him, he would need a new disguise; Mr. Needleman was no more.
“Probably some awful teacher’s going to replace you,” Cass complained when they were nearing home. “Somebody who’s really mean, not just acting that way.”
“Sorry, I’ve got another job now.” After he checked in with his Terces colleagues, Owen told them, he was going right back to sea in search of the Midnight Sun.
“They stole something, and I have to get it back. That’s why we put the tracer on their boat.”
“What did they take?” asked Max-Ernest.
“The Sound Prism. One of the Terces Society treasures. . . . It’s a . . . ball. About yea big —” He held out his hand.
Cass and Max-Ernest looked at each other apprehensively; he had to be talking about the ball in Cass’s backpack.
Max-Ernest poked Cass in the side. Wasn’t this their cue?
Cass shook her head imperceptibly.
Max-Ernest opened his mouth, but Cass pleaded with her eyes. They had one of those silent arguments that make you look like a monkey mimicking people at the zoo — until Max-Ernest shrugged and relented. He wouldn’t say anything, but Cass could tell he wasn’t happy about it.
She made a mental note to thank him later. In a highly functioning survivalist team, there had to be a leader. You didn’t have to agree with her all the time. But you couldn’t get to the top of Everest if someone wasn’t the lead on the rope.
Owen insisted on circling their neighborhood, then dropping them off a few blocks away from home — just in case anyone was staking out the territory.
“No time for tearful good-byes. If there’s an emergency, you can reach us at the Magic Museum.”
“Where’s that?” asked Cass.
“You don’t need to know.”
Cass rolled her eyes.
The VW ripped away, leaving them standing under a telephone pole. They both started talking at once — having the argument aloud that they’d had silently in the car.
I won’t try to untangle the entire conversation, but it boiled down to this: Cass didn’t trust Owen.
“The Sound Prism is all we have,” she said. “We already gave ourselves up to Dr. L, thinking he was Pietro. And Owen let us fall right into the trap!”
“I still think we should have showed him the Sound Prism. He did save our lives,” Max-Ernest pointed out.
Cass hesitated, then relented. “OK, fine — we’ll give it to them. But only if I can give it right to Pietro.”
Max-Ernest, who was very hungry and very tired and very much missing both of his beds, figured she meant sometime in the sort-of-distant future. But Cass had another idea. They should go find Pietro now. While they still could.
“We’re in trouble no matter what. What’s the difference if we’re missing a few hours longer?”
“But our parents probably think we’re dead —”
Cass nodded. “That’s why we should go now — dead people have more freedom!”
Max-Ernest shook his head — just when you thought you’d won an argument.
“Good,” said Cass. “Now all we have to do is figure out where the Magic Museum is.”
“Oh, that’s easy.” Max-Ernest reached in his pocket. “I found this on the floor of Owen’s car . . . and, well, it had the word magic on it, s-s-so, anyway,” he stammered, embarrassed.
He held out a book of matches.

The MAGIC MUSEUM

The address was on the back.
“How ’bout that?”
Cass looked stern. “Max-Ernest, that’s stealing!”
He paled.
“Joking!”
He laughed. Sort of.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
I'm terribly sorry but I lost this chapter. P.B.

I wrote it on a napkin in a diner late last night and —
You know how it is — one minute you’re banging on a broken vending machine, hoping just this once it will have pity on you, the next minute you’re tearing through the countryside, looking for anyplace, for anyone that will offer you a little bite of chocolate.
OK, bites.
I fell asleep in my car halfway through my twelfth Hershey bar. (Why can’t you ever find any decent imported dark chocolate in the middle of the night?) By the time I checked back at the diner, well, that napkin was wiping off anybody’s chin but mine.
Don’t worry — you’re not missing anything. The chapter didn’t contain anything important.
Oh, except that I finally revealed the Secret.
Or did I?
Actually, if you want to know the truth, my head’s a bit fuzzy at the moment — not to mention a bit funky, considering all the chocolate stuck in my hair. I don’t remember what I wrote on that napkin. I hope I didn’t write anything I shouldn’t have because it could be anywhere by now. And anyone could be reading it.
Well, there’s nothing to be done. The whole thing is out of our hands — out of mine, anyway.
Why don’t you skip ahead to the next chapter? I’ll be with you in a minute.
Ahem . . .
Cough . . . cough . . .
If you don’t mind . . .
Perhaps I didn’t make myself clear enough:
Move on. Now. Please.
I’m in desperate need of a shower.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
MEMBERS ONLY

It took six dollars, three buses, two hours, and one last bag of trail mix to get there.
But where?
Cass had told herself not to expect a medieval castle. But a mini-mall?
“Well, at least we can get Slurpees before we go back,” said Max-Ernest, looking at the convenience store that stood where the Magic Museum should be. There was also a dry cleaner and a pet grooming salon called Shampooch.
At first, they thought they had the wrong place. But when they walked around the side of the building by the bathrooms, they saw a stairwell leading to a basement door.
Next to the door was a small sign:

THE MAGIC MUSEUM
Members Only

“Members only?” Max-Ernest was disconcerted.
“Well, we are members — in a way. Terces members. At least, almost.”
“True,” Max-Ernest reflected. “And it doesn’t say you have to be a museum member — you could be a member of anything!”
Cass tried the handle and the door swung open with surprising ease.
They found themselves in a small waiting room that looked like it belonged in a Victorian mansion rather than under a mini-mall. Persian carpets were piled haphazardly on the polished wood floor. On the walls, portraits of famous magicians — some in tuxedos, others in robes and turbans — hung from satin ropes. And in the corner, perched on a brass stand, an iridescent green parrot preened in front of a full-length mirror.
An attractive but aloof-looking woman wearing black-framed glasses and a black satin suit sat behind a cluttered desk. Above her, flyers advertising museum events were posted on a bulletin board:

THE MAGICAL MIMES:
Quietest Magic Show on Earth

Next month:
THE OLE TIME TRAVELING CIRCUS REUNION

She smiled coolly at the two young people in front of her. “I’m sorry, the museum is closed to the public,” she said.
“Members only! Members only!” the parrot squawked.
“Owen told us to come,” said Cass, suddenly aware for the first time how they must look in their muddy clothes and ocean-washed hair.
“Does Owen have a last name?” asked the receptionist, expressionless, consulting her computer.
Cass shook her head hesitantly.
“Well, he probably does,” Max-Ernest corrected. “We just don’t know it. We don’t even know if Owen is his real name. Sometimes he calls himself Mr. Needleman.”
“Sorry, that name doesn’t ring a bell, either. If you’d like to come back — we offer tours on the third Sunday of every month.”
“What about Pietro Bergamo?” asked Cass. “He’s a magician — don’t you know him?”
The woman shook her head.
“Members only!” the parrot repeated, as if speaking for her.
A youngish man with longish hair and a shortish goatee on his chin walked in from outside. He wore round wire-rimmed glasses, and his eyes flickered briefly over the kids before he nodded at the receptionist.
Then he looked directly at the parrot. “Password please,” he said in a precise English accent.
“Make a spell. But don’t try very hard,” replied the parrot.
The Englishman thought for a moment. Then he said:
“Abraca-dabble.”
The parrot’s eyes glowed red and he spread his wings with the squeak of a hinge.
“I thought the parrot was real,” Cass whispered.
“I think it is — or was. It’s taxidermy,” Max-Ernest whispered back.
Behind the parrot, the full-length mirror swiveled on its axis, revealing a dark hallway. Without another word, the Englishman strode through the opening. The mirror closed behind him.
“Well, if you have no further questions, it’s time for my break now,” said the receptionist, standing. The kids expected to be ushered out but instead the receptionist smiled at them and exited the building, leaving them alone inside.
“I can’t believe she just left us like that,” said Max-Ernest.
“I think she did it on purpose,” said Cass. “I don’t know why. Like, she knows we’re not allowed but she wants us to get into the museum anyway. . . . Either way, let’s try to get in fast.”
Cass walked up to the parrot and looked it in the eye. “Abraca-dabble!” She stepped toward the mirror but the parrot didn’t move — and neither did the mirror.
“I bet the password changes every time,” said Max-Ernest. “That’s why he had to ask for the clue.”
He looked at the parrot and said, “Password please.”
“Demand entry,” said the parrot. “But don’t forget to feed me.”
“What kind of clue is that?”
“It think we’re supposed to put two words together — you know, like Shampooch,” said Max-Ernest. “Abraca-dabble is abracadabra, which was the spell part, plus dabble, which means not trying very hard.”
Cass looked skeptical. “So we need a word that means demand entry, and then one that means food for the parrot?”
“Yeah . . . maybe.”
“How about, ‘let me in . . . parrot food’?”
Max-Ernest scrunched his face. “Um, that’s kind of the idea. But the words should fit together.”
“Open up. Pizza delivery for a parrot!” said Cass.
“We’re not thinking about this right,” said Max-Ernest. “What do birds eat?”
“Birdseed,” said Cass. “How about, ‘open birdseed’?”
“That’s it — you got it!” said Max-Ernest excitedly.
“I did . . . ?” She looked at the parrot, but the parrot didn’t blink.
“Well, not exactly . . . but I know what it is now.”
Max-Ernest stepped in front of the parrot and said:
“Open sesame seed!”
The bird’s eyes glowed red.
It took a moment for their eyes to adjust to the darkness.
The only light in the hallway came from the display lights above the old magic show posters that lined the walls:

Proudly presenting 
Monsier Henri
THE HUMAN SALAMANDER.
He will pass a red-hot bar
of iron through his tongue...
Coming to you from 
the exotic East...
CHUNG CHOW 
THE CHINESE 
CONJURER
Watch bamboo grow from his fingers!

HURSTON
The Master of Mystery
VANISHES
BEFORE YOUR 
VERY EYES

At the end of the hallway, they walked under a sign that read Magic — A History of Disappearing, or a Disappearing History? and they entered a large room displaying numerous magical antiques.
Max-Ernest excitedly explained to Cass what they were looking at — at least the things he recognized from books. Ingeniously hinged cages designed to conceal birds before they were released onto a stage . . . folding tables with hidden holes in which to drop rabbits . . . secretly marked playing cards and unevenly weighted dice . . .
“And that’s Houdini —”
Max-Ernest pointed to a black-and-white photo of a bare-chested man that hung above an exhibit of his locks and chains.
Cass didn’t say it, but she thought Houdini looked fairly undignified, less like a world-famous magician than a short man in a Tarzan outfit.
What, she wondered, would Pietro look like? Surely, he didn’t look like the white-bearded wizard of her imaginings. Or wouldn’t she ever get to see him, after all?
Max-Ernest nudged her: in the middle of all the displays was an empty black pedestal bearing a small brass plaque: The Sound Prism. A few tiny shards of glass missed by the vacuum cleaner remained on the floor beside the pedestal.
The scene of the crime.
Spooked, they looked at it for a moment — for some reason, it felt as though Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais were about to pounce on them — and then they continued on.
The next room was round and covered in striped fabric — an indoor circus tent.
SIDESHOW……..SIDESHOW……..SIDESHOW…….. blinked a sign made of tiny, popcorn-style lightbulbs.
Here they found old photos of grinning Siamese twins. Saucy dancing girls. Surly bearded ladies. Tattooed fire-eaters. And — “Ow!” said Max-Ernest — an Indian fakir lying on a bed of nails.
They stopped to examine a fading circus poster in a peeling gold frame. It showed two identical young boys in tuxedos, one blindfolded, standing over some kind of fiery cauldron. Smoke curled up around them. “The Amazing Bergamo Brothers and their Symphony of Smells,” it read.

BERGAMO BROTHERS

Pietro and Luciano at age eleven.
Our two friends turned and looked at each other, eyes shining: now they knew they were in the right place!
“Uh, Cass, what do we do now?” asked Max-Ernest a moment later. He nodded toward the end of the hallway, where a man in a gray suit sat at a small table writing a note.
“Just act like we’re supposed to be here. . . . Excuse me, mister,” Cass said, raising her voice. “Do you know where we can find —”
The man didn’t look up, and when they got closer they could see why: he was not real, he was mechanical. And the note he was writing was simply a phrase written over and over in his jerky but precise hand:
Loose lips sink ships. Loose lips sink ships. Loose lips sink . . .
“Kind of creepy, don’t you think?” asked Cass.
“Not really. I think he’s cool,” said Max-Ernest. “He’s an automaton. Kind of like an old-fashioned robot. I read about them. In the old days, magicians used to perform with —”
Before Max-Ernest could finish:
Thwang! Thunk!
The two kids jumped as one: an arrow whizzed by their heads and landed right next to them amid dozens of arrows on a large target.
“Hey, you could have killed us!” Cass shouted.
But when they turned to see who’d nearly shot them, they saw only another automaton: this one holding a bow, a quiver full of arrows on the floor beside him.
As they looked around the room, they saw other automata playing games of cards or chess; watering fake flowers; telling fortunes over crystal balls. There were also mechanical animals: rabbits, chimps, birds. It was quite a collection. Most of the automata looked very old and some of them creaked very loudly or seemed to be broken altogether.
Apart from all the mechanical people, there didn’t seem to be a soul around. They thought they heard someone playing the piano — but when they followed the music to its source, they saw an old player piano, unaccompanied by anyone human or otherwise, its keys moving up and down, seemingly of their own accord.
“You think they’re just not here? Do we have to come back?” asked Max-Ernest. “Where did that guy with the glasses go?”
Before Cass could answer, a scrawny cat darted in front of them. Then started scratching herself against what looked like a cabinet or booth of some sort with a curtained opening. “Hey, isn’t that —”
“Pietro’s cat?” Cass finished Max-Ernest’s thought. (They’d met — or at least, seen — the magician’s shy feline when they visited his house in their last investigation.) “Yeah, could be. She’s just as skinny and has the same color, or multicolors — what’s it called?”
“Calico.”
As soon as Max-Ernest pronounced the word, the cat stepped into the booth and seemed literally to vanish before their eyes.
“Hey, where’d she go?!” Cass exclaimed.
As Max-Ernest watched, she stepped into the booth after the cat — and vanished just as quickly.
It was then that he noticed the glittering sign above the booth:

GATEWAY TO THE INVISIBLE

“Cass? You there?” Max-Ernest took a cautious step toward the booth Cass had disappeared into.
“Yeah, I’m right here! Can’t you see me?”
“No, it’s just black. It must be an illusion — you know, like for a stage show,” said Max-Ernest, trying to sound confident. “Are there mirrors inside?”
“Um, yeah, but I can’t really . . . wait, I think there’s some kind of door — it’s in the floor . . . okay, I’m going down just to look —”
“Wait — don’t go without me!” said Max- Ernest.
But by the time he entered the booth, she was gone — and light streamed up at him from the hatch in the floor.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
The INVISIBLE MAN

The basement of the Magic Museum was occupied by a large workshop that, for the most part, looked like it could have been anywhere in the world: normal hammers and wrenches and saws hung from hooks on the wall. Normal scraps of wood and metal lay on the floor. A normal scent of sawdust and glue filled the air.
But whereas in a normal workshop you might find someone making a chest to keep blankets in, the chests made here were meant to be sawed in half — with somebody inside. And whereas in a normal workshop you might have found a wardrobe cabinet designed for coats, here the wardrobe cabinets were designed for making tigers disappear.
In short, it was a magician’s workshop.
As Cass and Max-Ernest walked in, they saw an old man standing behind a workbench. He looked up at them briefly, then returned to the large silver vase in his hand. It had two handles and looked something like a trophy cup. He seemed to be fixing the bottom with a screwdriver.
He wore no velvet cloak — just old work clothes and a leather apron. He had no long white beard — just curly gray hair and a bushy mustache that snowed sawdust whenever he moved. And if he resembled a man from a fairy tale, it wasn’t the noble wizard Cass had imagined, it was that humble Italian woodworker, the father of Pinocchio, Gepetto.
Still, Cass knew who he was right away. As if she had known him forever.
“Um, excuse me, are you Pietro?” she asked, her heart beating hard in her chest. “Or Mr. Bergamo, I mean,” she corrected herself, remembering they’d never actually met before.
“Pietro will do,” he said by way of answer, not looking up from his work. His voice had a timbre similar to Dr. L’s. But Pietro’s voice retained more of his native Italian accent. And more of his native humanity.
The resemblance to his brother was uncanny, but not in the usual way of twins. It was more like seeing an old portrait of a friend’s ancestor — a portrait that looks exactly like the person you know but in a different era and at a different age.
Unlike Dr. L’s smooth and ageless face (a better word might be facade), Pietro’s face bore all the marks of time: scars and spots, wrinkles and veins. It was imbued with that ineffable sense of history, of life lived and of experience gained, that only the best and oldest faces possess.
He could have been Dr. L’s father, even his grandfather. Maybe an uncle. Anything but a twin brother.
“We, I mean, I am Cassandra,” she stammered. “This is Max-Ernest.”
Pietro remained silent. Max-Ernest felt compelled to jump in: “We’re the ones who saved Benjamin Blake from the spa last year. The ones who Owen —”
“Yes. I know,” said Pietro gently.
At last, Pietro finished doing whatever he was doing to the vase and looked up at the two intruders. “So. You have found me at work on my new stage.”
“What stage?” asked Max-Ernest, confused.
“My favorite stage — offstage.”
Pietro smiled to show he was making a joke. “I mean I have retired from being a magician. I was never the great entertainer — that was my brother. So these days, I only make the magic — I no longer perform it. Here —”
He placed the vase on the table in front of them.
“Each of you take a handle and pull. But gently! It’s very old and I don’t want to have to fix it again.”
They pulled —and for a moment nothing happened.
Then a little silver leaf sprouted above the lip of the vase. Its stem grew taller and taller, as if drawn upward by some invisible sun. Soon, other branches were growing from the central stem, leaves sprouting on each of these. Until a little silver tree stood in front of them.
One by one, delicate golden flowers budded and bloomed all over the branches.
“Whoa,” said Cass.
“Double whoa,” said Max-Ernest. “I’ve never seen one of those before. Even in books.”
“You can imagine what people thought a hundred and fifty years ago — before the movies and the computers and the special effects.”
As they spoke, a glittering gold canary emerged out of the top bloom and began to sing a lovely —
Screech!
Before the canary could get out a second note, its voice turned to a shrill whine and the whole tree started to smoke.
“Is that supposed to happen?” asked Cass nervously.
Pietro laughed. “Not at all. It’s supposed to sing a Mozart melody. Now if I were on the stage, I would have to pretend like I wanted it to smoke all along.”
He gestured to the loose gears and half-restored automata around him. “What I meant about making the magic — I create the illusions. I design them and I build them — but I do not use them so much anymore. And now you can see why.”
“Wow, so you’re a . . . well, what do you call it? I’ve never heard of what you do,” said Max-Ernest as if that made such a job impossible.
“There’s no name for it — because nobody’s supposed to know that it is done. We like magic to be a mystery, no? You don’t want to know somebody is standing behind the curtain, playing with mirrors. That ruins the whole thing.”
“We call him the Invisible Man,” said a voice from the back.
A tall, pinched-looking man with a pen behind his ear walked toward them.
“William Wilton Wallace III, certified public accountant, at your service,” he said, handing each of the newcomers a business card.
“Mr. Wallace is an accountant by day, but he is the Terces Society archivist by night,” Pietro explained.
“Nice to meet you,” said Cass.
“Oh, we’ve met before, when you were in diapers,” said Mr. Wallace with an expression of distaste — as if he could still smell the diapers in question. “I did the books for your grandfathers’ store until I gave up on them. Far too disorganized. Absolutely hopeless, those two. But I expect you feel the same?”
“No, well, I . . .” Cass trailed off, wanting to defend her grandfathers, but not wanting to pick a fight.
“And this is Lily Wei. I think you have met her upstairs.” Pietro nodded as the beautiful, black-suited woman entered the room. “Of course, she is not just our receptionist, she is a master of the Chinese music.”*
Lily smiled modestly. “Master is a relative word.”
“Will you play for them?” asked Pietro, indicating the collection of exotic instruments hanging on one wall.
Lily tilted her head in assent. Then picked out an odd, violin-like instrument with a horse head carved at the end of the neck where a scroll should be.
“This is the morin khur. From Mongolia. Close your eyes —”
Cass and Max-Ernest obeyed, and suddenly, they heard the sound of a horse galloping. The horse whinnied, then stopped short right next to them.
The effect was so startling they opened their eyes.
Lily laughed softly, still playing. “In the old days, they made the morin khur from the skull of a horse. They say you can still hear the horse’s ghost.”
The music became lovely and mournful and then —
She moved so swiftly that they never saw her pull the long, needle-like sword out of her violin bow. By the time they grasped what was happening, the sword was tickling Max-Ernest’s throat.
“Wha —!” he gasped.
Lily dropped the sword just as quickly.
Cass stared, pale.
“I forgot to tell you, Lily is also a master of defense,” said Pietro, enjoying their reaction, “our, what is the term? Muscle.”
The kids looked suitably impressed.
“You will always be safe when I am nearby,” said the demure receptionist, sheathing her sword back in the bow.
“So then — you knew it was us all along?” asked Max-Ernest, still quivering from the shock.
“I suspected. But I had Owen take a look just in case.”
“Owen? Is he here?” Cass looked around in surprise.
“Right here.”
Everyone turned to see the goateed Englishman sitting quietly in a chair by the wall. He removed his glasses.
The kids groaned. How could they not have guessed?
“The question is: why are you here?” said the English Owen. “I seem to remember dropping you off at home.”
“Give them a second. They’ll tell us in a moment,” said Pietro.
“How can you always look so different?” Max-Ernest asked. “Is that even your nose?”
“Of course, it’s mine!” said Owen, offended.
He pulled on his nose — and it stretched like putty. “I paid good money for it!”
Everyone laughed. And Cass felt a sudden surge of happiness.
The members of the Terces Society might not be the Knights of the Round Table any more than Pietro was Merlin, but, at the moment, she wouldn’t trade them for anyone. Even Owen.
“So, then, is this . . . everybody?” she asked.
At this, Mr. Wallace coughed and looked at Pietro with raised eyebrows.
“They will turn up when we need them, you will see,” Pietro said defiantly.
“I’m sure they’ll put on a fabulous show,” sniffed the archivist. He was obviously skeptical that they would turn up — whoever they were.
“The Terces Society has many friends,” said Pietro, turning back to Cass and Max-Ernest. “But it is well that we do not all know each other. . . . Speaking of this, have you two figured out our name?”
“Max-Ernest figured it out over the summer — he’s really good with stuff like that,” said Cass, in case anybody didn’t know.
“It’s secret backward, right?” asked Max- Ernest.
“Exactly right,” said Mr. Wallace, sounding faintly disappointed. “The early members found that whenever they said the word secret, it aroused too much interest. They called themselves the Terces Society so the riffraff would stay away.” He looked hard at their young guests.
Cass and Max-Ernest each took an involuntary step backward.
They had a thousand questions about the Terces Society, but they sensed this might not be the time to ask them.
“And now, perhaps you will tell us why you’re here,” said Pietro. “You took a great risk.”
Cass looked at Max-Ernest — he nodded — and she removed her backpack from her back. Silently, she unzipped it and pulled out the Sound Prism.
Pietro twinkled. “Ah, I knew you would have a good reason for coming.” He shot a look at Mr. Wallace — as if to say, told you so!
Owen laughed and shook his head ruefully. “You sneaks! Not even mentioning it in the car!”
“Showed you up, did they, Owen?” asked Lily slyly.
Cass and Max-Ernest glanced at each other, unable to hide their proud smiles.
“We heard this was stolen,” said Cass.
“It was, indeed,” said Pietro. “You have a done a very great thing — and, who can say? Averted much tragedy.”
Cass was about to hand him the Sound Prism, but he held up his hand, stopping her.
“And now — how do they say it on the television? I have a mission for you, if you choose to accept it.”
They nodded eagerly. Cass gripped the Sound Prism in excitement.
“Good. I think maybe you have heard of the homunculus?”
“Yeah, but he can’t be real,” said Max-Ernest confidently. “You can’t grow a man in a bottle. It’s not possible.”
“The Midnight Sun thinks it’s possible,” said Pietro.
“Yeah, but . . . you don’t . . . er, right?”
The old magician let the question hang. In a room like this, with half-built illusions all around, who could say what was possible?
“And that’s why they want him?” asked Cass, after a moment. “Because they think he’s one of these man-made guys? And they want to make another one?”
“We think they want something from him,” said Pietro. “Something he has or knows where to find.”
“Like what?” asked Max-Ernest. He still wasn’t ready to believe the homunculus existed — let alone that it knew anything.
“The grave!” said Cass, remembering the conversation they overheard on the boat.
Pietro nodded. “That would be Lord Pharaoh’s grave. The alchemist who made the homunculus, he called himself Lord Pharaoh. Assuming this thing exists —” he added for Max-Ernest’s benefit.
“Isn’t that redundant? Like calling yourself King King,” said Max-Ernest.
Pietro laughed. “Redundant, yes. And vain. But those were not his worst crimes. The Midnight Sun, they believe he knew the Secret.”
Max-Ernest and Cass fell silent, treating this information with the gravity it deserved. Pietro put a warm, calloused hand on each of their shoulders.
“You must find the homunculus before the Midnight Sun. It is of the utmost importance.”
Max-Ernest stammered in surprise. “Us? But —”
“But they’re only children!” protested Lily.
“It does seem dangerous,” said Owen. “Not that I’m volunteering. . . .”
“Pietro, this is insane — even for you!” said Mr. Wallace, red-faced.
“Yes, isn’t it?” He smiled broadly at Cass and Max-Ernest.
Cass tried to smile back and show she was brave. She wanted to ask more about the homunculus. About why they were being given this task. But all she could get out was: “How —?”
“With that —” Pietro pointed to the Sound Prism. “After all, it belongs to you.”
Before she could ask why, he continued, “It’s the only tool that we have. And you, Cassandra, are the only one who can use it.”
Cass looked at the ball in her hand as though she’d never seen it before.
As though it were a stranger looking back at her.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR
GRRRRROUNNNNDED

A lake at dawn. It is very cold.
A familiar eerie song starts to play.
Clouds of fog cling to the surface of the water. We can hardly see through the air, it is so wet and clammy.
Dark, hulking trees move in and out of view like shadowy hunters stalking prey. In the background, jagged mountain peaks rise out of the mist like giant jaws ready to clamp down on the entire picture.
A single bright spot interrupts the gloom. It is an orange triangle that, from a distance, looks like one of those safety cones used to divert traffic.
Looking closer, we see that the triangle is not a cone but a lone camping tent standing on the otherwise empty lakeshore.
Two boys are talking and their voices can be heard all across the lake — although, oddly, they are not shouting. From the sound of it, they’re maybe eleven or twelve years old, thirteen at the most.
“Oh man! That freakin’ stinks!” says one.
The other boy laughs. “Chill out, dude. Everybody does it!”
“Not again!” says the first boy. “If you don’t get out of the tent right now, I’m going to kill you!”
A few blades of grass block our view of the lake as we listen to the boys in the tent, taking note of their presence, but not making a sound.
We are like a crocodile, or a snake. A predator lying in wait.
A boy — the farter, we’re guessing — steps out of the tent. “Hey, where’s Tommy?” he asks.
“Hiking with my parents,” says the boy inside.
“But your dad told you to watch him —”
“He did?!”
Suddenly, we lift our head and disappear into the brush.
Darkness.
What a creepy dream, Cass thought. It was almost like she was the homunculus. Waiting.
But for what? Not to eat those kids?
Automatically, she reached for her sock-monster. Then remembered that Ms. Mauvais had tossed it to the Skelton Sisters. Sigh.
Why did the homunculus come to her in her dreams? When she had no idea how to find him in reality.
“This is your job and you cannot fail. It would be . . . a catastrophe,” Pietro had repeated before saying good-bye.
It had taken all her courage to ask why she was the only one who could use the Sound Prism. “You will see” was Pietro’s cryptic reply.
He’d hardly been more forthcoming when she asked how to use it. “Ah, I wish I could tell you. But I do not know.”
Of course, even if she’d known exactly where to find the homunculus, or how to use the Sound Prism, it wouldn’t have done her much good anyhow. She couldn’t leave the house.
How often did Terces Society members get grounded? she wondered bitterly. I’ll bet Pietro didn’t think of that when he gave us our mission.
Grounded.
   Such a
                    heavy
                word.
                    Grrrrrounnnnded.
Say it out loud.
It sounds almost onomatopoeic, doesn’t it?*
In the past, Cass had experienced the word only as a threat. Being grounded was something that happened to other kids, to bad kids, not to her. Even when Cass and Max-Ernest had run off to the Midnight Sun Spa, her mother had been so relieved that her daughter had returned home safe that she’d barely reprimanded her. She figured Cass had learned her lesson.
But evidently Cass had not learned her lesson.
“You know who has learned her lesson? Me!” said her mother, who, now that she was no longer worried about Cass being lost at sea, was absolutely furious.
“I don’t know who you think you are that you can keep running away like that, but this time you’re not getting off so easy. I don’t care whether this is some kind of plea for help or premature teenage rebellion or you’re trying to get back at me for every wrong I’ve ever done to you or you just like boats a lot. You, young lady, are grounded for the rest of the year!”
Other than being confined to your house, being grounded often means losing privileges of various kinds. The problem for Cass’s mother was that Cass didn’t seem to mind having things taken away. Or at least she didn’t let on if she did. (Cass knew she was going to be punished; she figured she should just grin and bear it.)
They were in the kitchen when her mother set down the rules — Cass eating cereal at the counter, her mother opening, and then slamming shut, cabinet doors at random.
The conversation went something like this:
Mom: “And there will be no extracurricular activities of any kind!” Slam.
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “I’m taking away your cell phone!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “And no television!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “No Internet!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “Nothing fun whatsoever!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “And no dessert!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “No Thai food — not even pad thai!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “OK, fine — then no dinner at all!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “All you get is gruel!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “I’m taking away your bed!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “You’ll sleep on the floor in chains!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “Fine!”
Cass: “Fine.”
Mom: “Fine! Fine! Fine! Is that all you can say? Fine — then you know what, you can just leave this house right now! And don’t come back!”
Cass: “So then you mean I’m not grounded?”
Mom: “Oh, you are so grounded! You can’t believe how grounded you are! You’re not leaving this house ever!”
The transition from screaming fight to mutual mother-daughter silent treatment was nearly instantaneous. An unrelenting quiet fell over the house like a miserable spell of weather. And it seemed it would never lift.
They both sought distraction wherever they could find it — anything to relieve the tedium that overtook their household.
Before Cass was grounded, when salespeople had called, Cass’s mother always hung up or shouted a few choice invectives into the phone; now she engaged salespeople in long conversations about the weather in India or the Philippines or Macao, while Cass tried to eavesdrop and pick up information about the world without letting her face show any interest.
In an effort to make her time more productive, Cass pretended being grounded was a Terces Society survivalist training exercise.
Although her mother never made good on her threat to take away her bed, Cass slept on the floor anyway. What food she ate she ate standing up — and with her hands. And in her spare time, she taught herself the entire alphabet in Morse code: she didn’t want to be caught unawares the next time Max-Ernest tapped her on the shoulder with an emergency message.
Indeed, she became so proficient at Morse code that she decided that from here on in, all Morse communications with Max-Ernest should be backward: Esrom code, they could call it.
That is, if she ever got to communicate with Max-Ernest again.
One evening after dinner, not long after the grounding began, Cass told her mother — truthfully — that she was going upstairs to study. What she didn’t tell her mother was that she meant study the Sound Prism.
She sat on her bed and turned it around in her hand, tracing the silver band with her finger and peering into the hundreds of little holes. How was this ball of sound supposed to help her find the homunculus? Was it as simple as listening until she heard him? How would she recognize the homunculus’s voice when she did?
If he even had a voice.
Suddenly, she overheard her mother talking. The walls in their house were quite thick, and normally any sounds coming from downstairs were muffled and unintelligible. But Cass could hear her as plainly as if they were in the same room:
“I always meant to tell her,” her mother was saying, “but it never seemed like the right time. And now she’s getting older, and I’m so afraid of losing her. . . . I know she’s a smart girl — she’ll figure it out, and what then?!”
Her mother sounded frantic.
Grandpa Larry, Cass thought. She’s talking to Grandpa Larry on the phone.
And almost at the same time, she thought: my father! She’s talking about my father. What else could it be?
“But I can already hear the sounds of a rebellious teenager,” her mother protested. “I can only imagine what she’ll be like next year — you know how daughters get with their mothers. And if I tell her, she’ll just have one more excuse to hate me. . . . Sure, she loves me NOW — you don’t think anything can change that?”
Could anything change that? Cass wondered. What was her mother’s secret? Was her love for her mother so strong that it would survive anything?
What if her father was a mass-murderer and he was in jail for life?
Or what if — what if her mother had killed her father? They could have had a fight, and it was self-defense. Or maybe it was just an accident. Either way, her mother wouldn’t have wanted Cass to know.
It fit the facts — you had to admit that.
No, she was being ridiculous: her mother wasn’t a killer. And for all she knew, her mother’s secret had nothing to do with her father.
Cass glanced with trepidation at the Sound Prism. She would have to be more careful about what she listened to in the future; some things you just didn’t want to hear.
Later that night, when she was sure her mother was sound asleep, Cass snuck out the back of her house.
The night air was surprisingly warm for the time of year, and she enjoyed the newfound sense of freedom as she walked along their high wooden fence to a certain patch of dirt behind the remains of an old doghouse.
She hadn’t visited this spot in a few years, but when she was younger it had been a frequent hideout. She called it the Barbie Graveyard because it was where, one night when she was nine years old, she’d ceremoniously buried every single doll she had. She’d marked the site with a melted Barbie toaster.
“They all died in an electrical fire,” she told her mother somberly. “I couldn’t save them.”
That next day she’d declared herself a survivalist.
Now, she had something else to bury.
It had occurred to her that the Sound Prism might not be safe in her bedroom. What if the Midnight Sun broke in while she was asleep and she never had time to hide it?
She tossed the Sound Prism back and forth in her hands as she looked for the best place to dig. At first, she barely heard the sound the Sound Prism was making. But when she held it still, she noticed that the sound stopped as well.
She tossed the Sound Prism between her hands again. And there was the sound. Like singing. Why was it so familiar?
Growing excited, Cass tossed the Sound Prism high into the air —
As it spun, the Sound Prism emitted a strange and wonderful sort of music — music that sounded impossibly close and yet seemed to come from far, far away.
Like the singing of fairies or sylphs.
Like the ringing of a thousand tiny voices inside your ear.
As soon as the Sound Prism fell back into her hand, Cass tossed it into the air again.
She stared, listening.
It was the song from her dreams.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
UNAVOIDABLY DETAINED

A note from a teacher can get you out of a myriad of difficulties — tardiness, say, or PE.
Sadly, when it comes to a serious crime — like running away from a field trip — a note only helps if it absolves you of the crime; it doesn’t do you much good if it blames you for the crime.
The note that Mr. Needleman (aka Owen) sent to Mrs. Johnson did not excuse their misadventure on the ocean. On the contrary, it explained that Cass and Max-Ernest had taken advantage of his good nature to escape from their class.
Mr. Needleman claimed that he’d suffered “severe emotional trauma” while pursuing his “reckless” and “renegade” students. He was checking himself into a mental health facility; therefore, unfortunately, he did not expect to return before the end of term.
He ended by saying he was considering suing the school for criminal negligence and suing Cass’s and Max-Ernest’s parents for raising criminals.
Cass was horrified. She couldn’t believe Owen would write a letter like that. They would probably be suspended. Or even expelled! She’d been right not to trust him, after all, she told Max-Ernest.
But Max-Ernest pointed out that Owen had only done what he had to do. “If he just talked about how great we were, Mrs. Johnson would think we forged it. And what would be the point of that?”
As it turned out, Mrs. Johnson did not suspend the juvenile delinquents otherwise known as the heroes of this story.
“Match the punishment to the crime, that’s my motto,” she said, staring imperiously at them from under a new royal blue hat, as they stood against the wall in her office like prisoners awaiting a firing squad. “Why should I give you time off from school for running away from school? Does that make sense to you?”
Instead, Mrs. Johnson chose a far less pleasant course: detention.
For the rest of the year.
“Does that mean the whole year or just the school year?” Max-Ernest asked. “Also, do we have to sleep here, or do we get to go home at night?”
Mrs. Johnson didn’t deign to answer.
Cass tried to hide her smile.
Detention.
It was just like being grounded. Only at school.
Cass and Max-Ernest had detention at lunch, free period, and even recess. There was no more arguing about their investigations at the Nuts Table. No more sneaking off to share secrets behind the gym.
Even environmental sciences felt like detention now — because Mrs. Johnson had decided to save money by filling in for Mr. Needleman herself. “After all, managing this school is just like running a zoo — and zoology is an important part of environmental sciences,” she said, as if that somehow qualified her to teach the class.
Despite her professed passion for zoology, Mrs. Johnson had removed all the animals from Mr. Needleman’s classroom as soon as she moved in. Hence Cass and Max-Ernest didn’t even have any gerbils or frogs to entertain them, only empty cages and terrariums.
On their first day of Johnson Jail, as they called it, Mrs. Johnson made them chisel off all the wads of gum from under the desks. (The hard wads were easy to remove; it was the sticky ones that were hard.) On the second day, she made them lick envelopes.
The envelopes contained copies of Mr. Needleman’s letter, along with a second letter from Mrs. Johnson that made doubly sure everyone understood that Cass and Max-Ernest, and not their principal, were to blame for the “tragedy at the tide pools.”
There was one envelope for every student (except in the case of siblings and divorced parents) — which, Max-Ernest calculated, amounted to 312 individual licks.
“Why don’t you send e-mails?” Cass asked Mrs. Johnson. “All that paper — it’s killing trees for no reason. I thought you were the Principal with Principles.”
“I am. And one of my principles is that students never talk back to their principal,” the principal predictably responded.
When Mrs. Johnson finally left them alone, Max-Ernest told Cass he didn’t mind licking all the envelopes. He liked the taste.
“Great!” Cass handed him her pile, and he started right away, attempting to lick as many envelopes in one minute as possible.*
“It’s so frustrating. I know the song means something — I just don’t know what,” Cass said, returning to a conversation they’d started on the bus that morning. “It’s like singing, but not with words. At least not in English or any other language.”
“’ould be ’ome ’ind of ’usical ’ode ’aybe,” Max-Ernest said, not stopping licking.
“What? Take that out of your mouth.”
“I’m trying to lick for both of us, so I have to go double fast,” said Max-Ernest, putting the envelope down. “I said, it could be some kind of musical code. . . . Do you have it with you?”
“The Sound Prism? I buried it in my backyard. Why? Could you use the Decoder to see?”
Max-Ernest shook his head. “No music recognition software. But maybe if we could figure out the notes —”
Before he could finish his thought, they were interrupted by the reappearance of Mrs. Johnson and the words: “Yo, what’s up, dudes?”
For a second, it seemed like it was their principal who had greeted them in this fashion. Then Yo-Yoji emerged from behind Mrs. Johnson.
“I regret to say you two will be having company,” said the principal. “Your colleague here has been downloading music in the library, despite the fact that rules about Internet usage are written in black-and-white above the computers. Perhaps I need to have them translated into Japanese —”
“I don’t read kanji,” muttered Yo-Yoji, taking a seat across from Cass and Max-Ernest.
Mrs. Johnson slapped a fresh stack of envelopes on the table. “I noticed a typo. We’ll have to start over,” she said, and walked out without another word.
Max-Ernest stared glumly at the stack, not quite as eager to lick as he was before.
“So what happened at the tide pools?” asked Yo Yoji. “You guys better tell me — you owe me that much.”
“What do you mean — we owe you? We got into big trouble ’cause of you,” said Cass.
“I didn’t say anything — I swear.”
“Then how did Mr. Needleman know where we went?”
Max-Ernest looked at Cass in confusion. “What are you talking about? Mr. Needleman was following us.”
Cass gave Max-Ernest a warning look. “Why would he follow us? He’s just a teacher.”
“Oh, I guess you’re right,” said Max-Ernest, backpedaling fast. “It’s not like he’s a spy!”
“Why are you dudes acting so weird?” asked Yo-Yoji. “I knew you were hiding something!”
“What’s to hide? We went to practice rock climbing,” said Cass.
“Yeah. Then we got lost,” said Max-Ernest. “That’s all. I mean, it’s not like we were looking for something, or looking for someone, or, like, trying to meet someone — I mean, who would that be? Members of some secret society? That would be ridiculous!”
“You guys suck as liars,” said Yo-Yoji. “C’mon — what was behind the rocks?”
“Nothing.”/“We can’t tell.”
“Well, which is it — is it a secret or was nothing there?”
“Both.”/“Neither.”
Yo-Yoji laughed. “It’s a good thing you guys aren’t really part of some secret society — you wouldn’t last a minute, yo.”
“Hi, Yo-Yoji!”
While they’d been talking, Veronica had entered the classroom. She smiled at Yo-Yoji, ignoring the others. “I have a message from Amber. She’s waiting outside and she wants to know if you want to be in a band with her. You know, for the talent show — because you’re so good at music?”
“Um . . . I kind of already have a band with these guys in Japan.” Yo-Yoji turned to Cass and Max-Ernest. “We’re trying to keep it going online. That’s why I was downloading stuff before —”
“You mean you don’t want to have a band with Amber?” Veronica was so appalled she couldn’t bother to hide it.
Yo-Yoji shrugged apologetically. “Yeah. I mean, not really.”
Veronica ran out to tell Amber the shocking news — and returned in less than a minute with another message for Yo-Yoji: “Amber says she was watching and she knows you got in detention on purpose,” she said breathlessly. “Because you have a crush on Cass!”
Cass’s ears instantly turned red.
Max-Ernest looked like he’d been hit by a truck.
“That’s not true! And, I mean, that’s not why I wanted detention,” said Yo-Yoji, blushing. “I just wanted to ask about the tide pools,” he whispered to the others.
Mrs. Johnson stuck her head, or at least her hat, through the doorway; she didn’t look happy. “Veronica — out, now! And the rest of you — is this detention or social hour?”
Veronica scurried out, looking extremely pleased with herself.
Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji all sat, stunned, as silent as the empty animal cages around them.
“You know, you don’t really sound like you’re from Japan,” said Max-Ernest finally. The way he said it, he might have been accusing Yo-Yoji of murder. Or at the very least of stealing his allowance.
“I’m not. We were just there for a year —”
“What were you doing there?” asked Cass, still recovering from the unexpected, unwanted, and apparently untrue news.
“My dad was studying pollution on Mount Fuji.”
Cass’s eyes lit up. “What kind of pollution?” Even as rattled as she was, the topic couldn’t fail to interest her.
Max-Ernest, on the other hand, seemed about as interested in hearing about pollution as he was in breathing it. At least, if it meant hearing from Yo-Yoji.
“All kinds. He does all these tests on snow. We go backpacking all the time so he can take samples.”
“Wow, your father sounds really cool,” said Cass.
“He’s OK, I guess. Sometimes it blows having to go to the mountains all the time because my parents have this rule about no electronic devices. So you can be all at one with nature or something. Do you ever go backpacking?”
“Are you kidding? My mom hates nature.”
“What about you, Max-Ernest?”
“My parents aren’t a couple,” he answered, not looking at Yo-Yoji.
“So?”
“They’re divorced. We don’t do stuff like that.”
“Oh, OK. Right. I get it,” said Yo-Yoji, clearly not getting it at all.
Rather than offering any clarification, Max-Ernest started relicking envelopes, soothing himself with the satisfying taste.
Unwillingly, Cass found her mind going back to what Veronica had said. Obviously, Amber was just mad because Yo-Yoji wouldn’t be in a band with her . . . right?
Cass dismissed the thought. There was a more important question to answer:
“Hey, Yo-Yoji, do you know how to read music and stuff?”
“Um, pretty much.”
“Do you think if I hummed some notes you could tell what they were?”
Max-Ernest looked at Cass in alarm. “Cass, you can’t —”
“So what — it’s just a song. . . . So, can you?” she asked Yo-Yoji.
“Well, I can try. . . . Actually, the chorus teacher at my old school said I had perfect pitch —”
“You know, there aren’t many people who really have perfect pitch,” said Max-Ernest. “It’s very rare.”
“Let him try at least!”
Max-Ernest shrugged. He didn’t approve but he could tell Cass couldn’t be stopped.
“So, what is this song, anyway?” Yo-Yoji asked. “Wait, don’t tell me, it’s a secret!”
Cass nodded.
Yo-Yoji laughed. “Yeah, whatever. Go ahead —”
“OK. My voice isn’t very good, but hopefully you’ll get it —”
Cass began to hum the song of the Sound Prism — at least her best approximation.
Yo-Yoji made her repeat the song. Then he concentrated, humming the tune to himself. “It’s kind of hard because there are a few sharps and flats . . . but I think it goes C – A – B – B – A – G – E – F – A – C – E.”
“CABBAGE FACE?” Max-Ernest pronounced. “You’re saying the tune spells cabbage face?”
“If you’re trying to insult me, I’ve heard worse things — better insults, I mean,” said Cass, her ears reddening again.
Well, one thing was clear: he didn’t have a crush on her. That made life simpler, anyway. But she still needed to know what the notes meant.
“Why would I want to insult you? I didn’t even notice what the notes spelled.”
Cass searched his face to see if he was telling the truth. “Well, then, thanks, I guess. It’s just kind of weird. . . .”
“What’s wrong with Cabbage Face? I think it would be a sick band name! Good band names are really hard to think of. My band’s called Alien Earache. I came up with it — well, the earache part.”
Could that really be what the song was saying? Cass wondered. All those nights. All those dreams. And all the while the song so beautifully calling . . . Cabbage Face?
Lost in thought, she didn’t notice the expression on the face next to her: Max-Ernest’s glare would have been enough to make any cabbage wilt.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
on the bus
EXIT

I still can’t believe they don’t have seat belts on school buses,” said Cass that afternoon, sliding into her usual seat next to Max-Ernest (eleventh row, left-hand side). “I think we should boycott until they start following safety codes. What use is an education if you’re brain-dead because you went flying through the windshield?”
“We’re all the way in the back of the bus. I doubt we would make it that far,” Max-Ernest replied. He was sitting with his legs folded against the green vinyl seat-back in front of them and he didn’t look like he was flying anywhere. “I bet we wouldn’t even break an arm —”
“You know what I mean! Why do you have to be so . . . logical?”
“Because I have a brain and I use it. I thought you didn’t want us to be brain-dead —”
“OK. You’re right,” said Cass, who was feeling rather cheerful despite her morbid thoughts.
The bus lurched into gear — and Cass and Max-Ernest both rocked dangerously in their seats, Cass’s braids swinging. But Cass refrained from pointing it out.
“Hey, I was thinking we should have some kind of signal for emergencies,” she said, lowering her voice so the other students on the bus wouldn’t hear. “You know, since my mom took my cell phone away. Maybe you could call my house, ring once, hang up quick, call back, ring twice. ’Cause that would be like one short two long — which is E M in Esrom code, which is M E in Morse code. For Max-Ernest, get it? Then I’ll know to meet you in my backyard at midnight.”
She couldn’t tell whether he liked the idea or not. “That’s our signal then, OK?”
He nodded. Vaguely.
“So that was pretty cool, the way Yo-Yoji could tell the Sound Prism notes like that,” said Cass.
“Yeah, it was sick.”
In the solemn, matter-of-fact way Max-Ernest said this, he might as well have said “The cat is sick” or “I’m holding a stick.”
“Sick?” repeated Cass with a laugh.
“It means, like, cool — right? Isn’t that what you said?”
“Yeah, it’s just — never mind.” She couldn’t believe Max-Ernest had used Yo-Yoji’s word. If it were anybody else, she would have thought he was being sarcastic.
“Anyway, I was sure the Sound Prism was saying something, but . . . Cabbage Face? It’s like something somebody would call you at school. . . .”
“Call me?” asked Max-Ernest. “Why would they call me that?”
“No, duh. Anybody. It just sounds like a mean name. . . . You think it’s another name for the Sound Prism? Because it’s round like a cabbage?”
Max-Ernest shook his head. “Then it would be Cabbage Head or just The Cabbage.”
“Yeah, you’re probably right,” said Cass agreeably. “Besides, the Sound Prism is too pretty to have a name like that.”
She took a notebook out of her backpack and opened it to a page on which she’d written CLUES — CABBAGE FACE in big capital letters.
“What about some kind of warning or prophecy?” she asked.
“Like, if you don’t watch out your face will look like a cabbage? That doesn’t sound like much of a warning — yo,” he added. With all the flatness of “I must untangle my yo-yo” or “I will now be singing my so-lo.”
Oh no — not yo, too! Cass groaned to herself.
“Max-Ernest, can I tell you something, as your friend? Don’t say yo. Or sick.”
“But Yo-Yoji says them —”
“That’s different. He’s . . . Yo-Yoji. You . . . sound silly.”
Usually, because Max-Ernest was bad at emotions, you could say something like that without worrying about hurting his feelings (at least that’s what Cass told herself), but he looked so stricken that she immediately added, “I mean, Yo-Yoji sounds kind of silly, too.”
“But you said he didn’t! That’s what you meant, anyway.” Max-Ernest turned away from Cass and faced the window.
Cass studied the back of his spiky-haired head. What was wrong with him today?
“So have you tried putting Cabbage Face in the Decoder yet?” she asked.
Max-Ernest shook his head, still not looking at her. “I didn’t think you wanted me to. Yo-Yoji already figured it out, didn’t he?”
“That was just the notes — what about the words? I tried different combinations but I don’t think any of them work.”
Cass tapped Max-Ernest on the shoulder and he glanced at her notebook briefly.
Cabbage Cafe ´
A Cab Cafe ´ Beg
Beg a Cab Face
Ceca Fa Be Bag
“Well, I guess you don’t need me then — did Yo-Yoji do those with you?”
“No, I did them myself! I haven’t even seen Yo-Yoji since you did.”
“It doesn’t matter — none of them are right, anyway.”
“Yeah, I didn’t think so. I was just showing you.”
Max-Ernest nodded and started looking out the window again. What was so fascinating out there? Not the dry cleaner they were driving past. Cass couldn’t remember him ever being this quiet.
“So it’s Wednesday — are you coming to my grandfathers’?” she asked. “My mom said I could go even though I was grounded if I walked Sebastian. ’Cause that was kind of like a job.”
“No, I got stuff to do.”
“Oh.” She didn’t ask what stuff.
Were they in a fight? It sure seemed like they were, but with Max-Ernest, it was hard to tell.
“Besides, why don’t you just ask Yo-Yoji to come?”
“What do you mean?”
“Well, you’re a couple now, right?”
“What are you talking about?”
He turned to face her. “Aren’t you?”
“No!” Cass had never said the word more forcefully in her life. But Max-Ernest didn’t seem to hear it.
“Well, anyways, I was thinking, maybe you guys should be collaborators instead of us. He knows all about the three-point rule and backpacking and everything. I’ll bet Pietro would let him in the Terces Society if you asked. I’ll even give you guys the Decoder if you want. Do you want it?”
“No.”
“OK, I’ll keep it then. It could be helpful with homework, I guess.”
“Max-Ernest, why are you being like this?” Cass thought she knew the answer. It was just that it was so surprising it was hard to believe.
“Like what?”
“Like . . . crazy. Are you mad at me?”
“What do you mean? You’re the one whose ears are all red,” said Max-Ernest.
“Great. Thanks a lot for telling me,” said Cass. Unlike Max-Ernest, she knew how to be sarcastic when she wanted to be.
What she didn’t know how to do was make things right. A jealous Max-Ernest was a disaster — natural or unnatural, she wasn’t sure which — that she was altogether unprepared for.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
UPSIDE down

For as long as Cass had known them (which was as long as she’d been alive), Grandpa Larry and Grandpa Wayne had lived in an old fire station, but Cass had never once seen a fire engine there. This is not quite as surprising as it sounds because the fire station no longer operated as a fire station; rather than firefighters the station housed only Cass’s grandfathers and their antiques store, the Fire Sale.
But that afternoon, when she arrived to walk Sebastian, Cass saw not only a long red fire engine, but also paramedics and policemen and emergency workers of every stripe. They spoke into walkie-talkies. They took photographs. They bandied about phrases you usually only hear on television like “securing the perimeter” and “talking to witnesses.”
Normally, the sight of so much emergency activity on the quiet tree-lined street would have excited Cass, and she would have pummeled the paramedics with questions about CPR techniques, or at least complained to the firemen about the seat belt situation on her school bus.
But it was different knowing her grandfathers were inside.
Had someone been hurt? Had the firehouse caught on fire? Cass looked around, her heart beating in her chest. The sky was clear. She didn’t smell smoke.
Cass ran up the steps and found Grandpa Larry right inside the doorway, deep in conversation with a woman in a police uniform.
As it turned out, nothing terrible had transpired — except a rather minor burglary. The reason all the emergency vehicles had come was that Larry had been so distressed when he called 911 that he wasn’t able to get a word out, and the 911 dispatcher had assumed he was choking or worse.
“They just turned the place upside down!” Larry was saying now.
“Yes, I can see that,” said the expressionless policewoman, looking at the piles of junk on the floor. There was stuff everywhere: the store was bursting at the seams. The only relief from the chaos was a shiny brass fire pole that disappeared into a hole in the floor above.
“Oh no . . . those piles are from when we started doing inventory three years ago. Big mistake!” Larry shook his head, remembering.
“I see. . . . So those shelves, then?” The policewoman nodded toward the open shelves: books and crockery and old machinery and knickknacks, all tumbled out of the shelves very much as if someone had upended them.
“Are you kidding?” Larry huffed. “We just organized those shelves last month! It took days. They’ve never been so neat.”
“Right. . . . Then what exactly . . . ?”
“Well, those drawers, of course! And the cabinets over there! Can’t you tell? Those bloody so-and-sos just tore them apart!” Larry pointed across the room.
“Uh huh,” said the policewoman, straight-faced. There was no way to tell what had been torn apart and what hadn’t. “But they didn’t take anything at all?”
“That’s the worst part — how dare they not take anything! They couldn’t find anything they wanted? Those laptops, for example — perfectly usable. And they left the Staffordshire! A chip here and there maybe, but stunning just the same. . . .”
“Could be someone’s angry at you. Or playing a joke. Unless you’re playing one on me . . . ?” She looked at him sharply.
“No. No. I never . . . oh Cass, I didn’t see you!” said Larry, agitated. “Sweetheart, could you do me a favor and take Sebastian on a little walk? All this nuttiness is making him . . . nutty.”
Larry gestured toward his blind basset hound, lying a few feet away. Sebastian, it must be said, looked a lot calmer than Larry. But Cass didn’t argue.
Grandpa Larry might not have known what the burglars wanted, but she did. Well, she suspected. As far as Cass was concerned, there was only one thing they could be looking for. And it wasn’t at the firehouse, it was at her house.
“Uh, no . . . I’ll take him. Right now!” She grabbed Sebastian’s leash and he started to roll —
That’s right. Roll.
You see, over the last few months, Sebastian had lost his ability to walk. Oh, he could shuffle a little bit. But his back had gotten so painful, and his belly had fallen so low to the ground, that he couldn’t move more than a few feet without exhausting himself to the point of collapse.
Sometimes, he looked more like a rug than a dog; indeed, more than one customer in Cass’s grand-fathers’ shop had stepped on him only to be surprised by the loudest yelp they’d ever heard.
Grandpa Wayne (as you know if you’ve read my first book, and if you haven’t, what can I say, there are risks to everything) was a retired auto mechanic and a constant tinkerer. He had dealt with Sebastian’s disability by rigging an old skateboard for the dog’s use. The skateboard was outfitted with a seat belt (to prevent Sebastian from falling off) and a leash (with which to pull the skateboard). Everybody was happy with the contraption, even Sebastian, until an obstacle became apparent: how was Sebastian supposed to “do his business” if he was strapped to a skateboard?
Hence Cass’s grandfathers had taken to wrapping Sebastian in a towel — oh, let’s call it what it is, a diaper — with a hole cut for his tail.
If you’ve never seen a dog in a diaper, let me tell you there are few sights sadder. Unless it is the sight of a blind, near deaf, and virtually paralyzed dog in a diaper.
“It’s a good thing he can’t see himself” was all Cass could say the first time she saw Sebastian in his new getup.
As brave as Cass was, I must admit that it occasionally embarrassed her to walk Sebastian in this condition. Today, however, she didn’t give a thought to the way he looked.
She ran down the street with Sebastian practically flying behind her.
When they reached her house, Cass walked right past — and down another block.
Partly to look for suspicious activity. Partly to screw up her courage.
When they returned, she still didn’t let herself in — she went around to the back.
With Sebastian standing guard (or lying guard, anyway) she dug until she could verify that the Sound Prism was still there, wrapped in a Mylar space blanket, just the way she left it. Then, relieved, she quickly reburied it.
She entered the house as silently as she could considering she was pulling a dog on a skateboard behind her.
Inside, the house was quiet — and apparently untouched. The couches had not been torn apart. Bookshelves and drawers had not been upended. The cupboards had not been ransacked.
Could she have been wrong? Was it possible her grandfathers’ burglars hadn’t been looking for the Sound Prism after all? Was it possible the Midnight Sun had never been to the firehouse? Wouldn’t they have checked her house first?
She was almost disappointed. She’d been so certain.
Cass felt a tug on Sebastian’s leash. He’d been acting anxious ever since they’d arrived at her house. But now he was wriggling on his skateboard and barking frantically.
“What’s wrong, Sebastian? Better not be your diaper because I’m definitely not changing it!”
Maybe he just wants to get off the board for a minute, she thought.
As soon as Cass untied him, the blind, near deaf, and physically ailing dog leaped off the skateboard, sending the board shooting backward. And then he bolted toward the stairs with the energy of a dog half his age.
Astonished, Cass followed Sebastian upstairs, where he ran unhesitating all the way to her closed bedroom door.
Which he proceeded to paw furiously.
When Cass opened the door, he bounded into the room and, trembling with excitement and exhaustion, fell in a heap in front of her bed.
Cass stared at the dog: “What has gotten into you? Are you . . . trying to tell me something?”
Cass knew from experience that Sebastian had a keen sense of smell — and of danger. Not for nothing did they call him Sebastian, the Seeing-Nose dog. For him to act so peculiarly, there had to be a reason.
Nervous, Cass went through her regular checks.
At first she didn’t notice anything unusual — but when she glanced at her windowsill, she stopped short: the dead bee was gone.
She looked down: there it was on the floor, about a foot away from the wall.
Somebody had opened her window.
When she checked her drawers a second time, she saw that the dental floss had been retied rather sloppily.
Somebody had looked in her drawers.
Somebody had been in her room.
And that’s when she saw it sitting on her bed. Her sock-monster. What was once her sock-monster, anyway.
It had been ripped to pieces and was now a pile of scraps:

A FEW TORN SOCKS SOME LOOSE THREADS BOTTLE CAPS & TENNIS SHOE TONGUES LOOSE RECYCLED COTTON STUFFING

So the Midnight Sun had come, after all.
They’d even left her a gift of sorts. A warning.
Of course, now that she’d established she was right, Cass wasn’t so excited about it.
In fact, she was rather frightened.

CHAPTER TWENTY
MAX-ERNEST The MAGNIFICENT

After the bus dropped him off that afternoon, Max-Ernest went home — or, as he sometimes thought of it, he went homes.
Perhaps I should explain:
As you may possibly remember, Max-Ernest’s parents had divorced almost as soon as Max-Ernest was born. But they’d kept living together so that Max-Ernest would grow up with both parents in the house.
In principle, that might have been a good idea. In practice, however, it was very stressful for all of them — especially because Max-Ernest’s parents insisted on living entirely distinct lives, each keeping to his or her half of the house and never speaking to the other.
Recently, thankfully, Max-Ernest’s parents had made the sensible decision to separate.
“Isn’t this what you always wanted?” asked his mother. “A nice, normal divorced family?”
“Now we can be like every other divorced family on the block,” said his father. “Wouldn’t you like that?”
(Max-Ernest’s parents had an odd habit of repeating each other’s words without acknowledging that the other parent had spoken.)
Their separation was quite real; they literally cut their house in two. With chain saws. Max-Ernest’s mother’s half of the house (the modernist-style half) stayed where it was, while Max-Ernest’s father had his half (the cozier, woodsier half) hauled to an empty lot across the street.
I’m sure I don’t have to tell you how unusual the half-houses looked. However, both half-houses were boarded up on the sides where’d they been severed — so their interiors were not exposed to the elements and you could live in them more or less “normally”.*
In their new mood of commonsense compromise, Max-Ernest’s parents worked out a custody arrangement for their son that made them both equal partners in parenting. They called the agreement “half-and-half.”
For the first half hour of every hour, Max-Ernest was expected to be at his mother’s half-house, for the second half hour, his father’s. Exceptions included mealtimes, which were broken into fifteen-minute segments so Max-Ernest would never miss a meal with either parent, and sleeping hours, which were spent at alternate half-houses nightly.
By now, Max-Ernest was used to the arrangement; I might go as far as to say he’d mastered it. His watch was programmed to beep every half hour, but he’d gotten to the point where his internal sense of time was just as accurate as his watch, and usually he was stepping through the doorway of his mother’s or father’s half-house (whichever was next) by the time his watch beeped.
Today was different.
The bus had dropped him off at an awkward time, 3:47, and he had trouble remembering whether he was supposed to go to his mother’s or his father’s first, and whether he was supposed to stay with parent number one until 4:00 (thus cheating parent number one of seventeen minutes) or 4:30 (thus cheating parent number two of thirteen). It didn’t matter that neither of his parents would be home yet; it was a point of honor that he abide by the agreement even in their absence.
As he stood in the middle of the street debating which way to go, his mind went back to his conversation with Cass on the bus. His questions, he thought, had been very sensible: If Yo-Yoji had a crush on Cass, why wouldn’t they be a couple? If Yo-Yoji was good at climbing, why shouldn’t they be collaborators? And yet, for some reason, his feelings didn’t make so much sense.

Scccrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrreeeeeeeeeeeeeeeech!

A truck braked, blaring its horn; Max-Ernest jumped out of the way and wound up in front of his mother’s half-doorstep.
His mother’s half-house was very stark, almost empty inside. Nevertheless, movement was sometimes difficult because of where it had been split from his father’s half-house. Usually, Max-Ernest ran up the stairs to his room without a problem, his body remembering exactly when and where he had to dart to the side to avoid hitting the plywood wall that bisected the stairway.
This time, he hit the wall twice, scraping his shoulder and elbow.
Was he mad at Cass, like she said? Was that why he was he so upset?
It was strange losing a friend. As strange as it’d been to make a friend in the first place. But much worse. He almost wished he’d never made a friend at all.
Once safely in his bedroom, almost as a test, he tried throwing some things around in his room, which is what he imagined someone angry would do. Yo-Yoji, for example. He would probably break something. Like a guitar.
But it was no use. His model rocket didn’t fly any farther than when he tried to launch it properly. The Frisbee bounced off the wall and hit him in the face. He couldn’t even bring himself to throw the specimens from his rock collection.
I must not be very mad, he thought. Or else maybe I’m just not good at it.
Then he noticed the brown paper package on his desk. Max-Ernest had received packages in the mail before — kits for building airplanes and spaceships, mostly, and boxes of books — but only when he’d ordered them. This one was a surprise. As was the name written on it:
“Max-Ernest the Magnificent.”
Repeating the name with a sense of wonder, he sat on the floor and opened the package, revealing a large cardboard box. The box was decorated with a top hat and a magic wand, as well as the words, The Magic Museum’s Home Magic Show.
When he lifted the lid off the box Max-Ernest saw a classic magic set arrayed in molded plastic. There was a wand. A deck of cards. A rope for rope tricks. A cup and ball set similar to the ones he’d pointed out to Cass. And a few other things I won’t give away because I don’t want to ruin anybody’s magic show.
Now all I need is a hat — how ’bout that? Max-Ernest thought.
A small card was paper-clipped to the manual:

Try the cone trick.
It’s a good place to start.
P.B.

Following instructions in the manual, Max-Ernest made a cone out of black construction paper. The cone was designed so that it looked empty when you opened it up for your audience, but it had a secret compartment that you could pull a scarf out of. The idea was to make it seem like you were pulling the scarf out of thin air.
Max-Ernest’s first idea was that he would practice the scarf trick a few times, then try it on Cass the next day. Then he remembered he might not be talking to her ever again. Perhaps instead he could try the trick out on his mom and dad (separately, of course). If it went well, he could make it part of his magic comedy routine for the talent show.
After all, Cass wasn’t the only person in the world — just his only friend. At least, she had been.
The manual suggested practicing in front of a mirror. So he took his paper cone into the bathroom along with a bandanna left over from the one day four years ago that he’d tried being a Cub Scout.
“Ladies and gentleman,” he pronounced, addressing the mirror. “I, Max-Ernest, the Magnificent, have in my hand a normal piece of paper folded into a cone. Look, it’s totally empty and —”
Max-Ernest was certain he’d made the cone correctly, but as the minutes passed, he got more and more frustrated. No matter how hard he tried, he couldn’t make the cone look empty; he kept seeing the corner of the bandanna poke out. He decided to look in the manual again; maybe he’d missed something earlier.*
Thumbing through, he noticed that a particular passage had been underlined in red.
The passage explained that diversions help set up tricks:

For example, you might hold up your wand and say, “Watch my wand closely — I promise there’s nothing tricky or magic about it,” before tapping your magic cone with your wand. That way your audience will think the secret of your trick lies in the wand, not in the cone.

Strange, thought Max-Ernest. It was almost as though the words had been underlined just for him.
He took the wand out of the magic set and tried the cone trick in front of the mirror again. But he was so frustrated by his earlier failures — and, I suspect, so angry at Cass — that instead of gently tapping his cone, he flung the wand across the room.
Almost as if he was good at being angry, after all.
As the wand hit the wall, its white cap flew off — and a tightly scrolled sheaf of papers slid out. Max-Ernest picked them up and unfurled them with a sense of nervous excitement.
On the first page, there was a note in pencil:

Dear Cassandra and Max-Ernest:
I have persuaded Mr. Wallace that as long as you have the Sound Prism, you should have this file as well. Share these pages with no one. And please return them when your mission is complete. Or I will be in big trouble with Mr. Wallace!
Regards,
P.B.

The first page also had a carefully typed label:

SOUND PRISM:
Notes, Stories, Memoranda
1500 Present Day
In the old days, when he and Cass were collaborators, Max-Ernest would have called Cass immediately. He might even have given the emergency signal. He wouldn’t have read a single page without her.
But what to do now? Should he read the pages on his own? Rip them up without reading them at all?
As he struggled with his feelings, the alarm on his watch started beeping: he was late to go to his father’s. For the first time ever.
He shoved the pages into his pocket, flew down the stairs, and ran across the street. By the time he got to his father’s half-house, he’d reached a decision.
Or half of one, anyway.

CHAPTER NINETEEN
No Secrets in this house!

You know all about Cass’s morning ritual. But she had a nighttime ritual as well.
I’m afraid she might not have liked me telling you about this ritual — because it didn’t necessarily match the tough image she liked to project. It was not part of her survivalist training; it was more, well, daughterly.
Every night, when Cass was ready for bed, her mother would knock on the door (she always knocked before entering; it was a rule) and then she would peek inside Cass’s room.
“Please, can I tuck you in tonight?” her mother would ask. “Just one more time. I won’t be able to sleep otherwise.”
Cass would groan. “You’re such a baby! Do you have to?” And then she would let her mother tuck her in, anyway. They both knew that Cass liked to be tucked in as much as her mother liked tucking her in, but it was more fun to think of Cass as the grown-up and her mother as the child.
At least, that had been their ritual until Cass was grounded. For the last few nights, Cass had gone to bed on her own.
Tonight, though, having painstakingly reconstructed her sock-monster, but not yet having fully reconstructed her courage, she knocked on her mother’s door. “Mom, will you, um, tuck me in?”
Her mother smiled as if she’d been paid the best compliment of her life. “Of course, sweetie,” she said. “You know how much I’ve been missing that.”
Later, as Cass’s mother was giving her a last smothering good-night kiss, the phone rang. Once.
“Must have been a wrong number,” said Cass’s mother, standing to go.
Cass nodded, not thinking anything about it.
Then the phone rang again. Twice. The signal!
For a second, Cass’s eyes flared with excitement. Which she squashed just as quickly.
“What?” her mother asked from the doorway. “Do you know who that was?”
“No, it’s nothing!”
“Cass . . . ?”
“Probably just a wrong number, like you said.”
“Cass, you’re not a grown-up yet. You don’t get secret calls from people I don’t know.”
“Fine. It was Max-Ernest. It means I’m supposed to call him, but I don’t feel like it. I’ll just talk to him tomorrow. There, are you satisfied?”
Her mother nodded. “Thank you. You know I don’t like having secrets in this house.”
Cass (snorting): “Whatever.”
Mom: “Was that a snort?”
(Oops. Now she had blown it.)
Cass: “What?”
Mom: “Whatever snort what?”
Cass: “What are you talking about?”
Mom: “Don’t whatever snort me.”
Cass: “I didn’t.”
Mom: “You didn’t what? Just say whatever you were going to say!”
Cass: “You don’t want me to say it. You don’t want to talk about it.”
Mom: “Now you really better say it. . . .”
Cass: “Fine — whatever, you won’t even tell me who my dad is!”
There it was.
In a movie, that would be a big moment. There would be a crescendo of the score, or on television, a cutaway to an advertisement for diapers, or motor oil, or hammocks. However, in a plain old commercial-free conversation, an awkward sentence like that has to be followed by another awkward sentence.
Her mother stared at her in surprise. “Cass, where did that come from? You . . . you haven’t asked about . . . that in years.”
“Never mind,” said Cass, regretting her words immediately. “Sorry. I shouldn’t have brought it up. It’s not my business. . . .”
“Of course, it’s your business,” said her mother, walking back to Cass’s bedside. “I just . . . wasn’t expecting the question, that’s all. Well, I was expecting it sometime, just not . . .” She trailed off.
There was silence for a moment, mother and daughter each waiting for the other to speak. Cass couldn’t remember ever experiencing a more uncomfortable moment with her mother. Sure, they’d had screaming fights, even thrown things — a remote control, an oboe, a lasagna — but somehow this was worse.
“Anyway,” said Cass, desperately wanting the moment to be over, “whoever he is, he’s not really my father. I mean, he didn’t raise me. So it doesn’t really matter.”
Her mother looked at her searchingly. “Are you sure, Cass? Is that really how you feel?”
Cass nodded vigorously. She knew that later she would kick herself for not pushing her mother to say more, but right now, for some reason — for a hundred reasons — it was the last thing she wanted.
“Good,” said her mother, giving Cass a quick hug. “You and me — we’re what matters, right?”
She left the room — but not without shouting “Love you!” one more time.
At exactly midnight, Cass found Max-Ernest waiting for her in the Barbie Graveyard. Hands in his pockets, he was bouncing up and down to ward off the chill.
Before she could say anything, he started talking in a long chain of words, connecting one thought to the next without stopping — almost like his old self. His breath made puffs in the air as he spoke.
“. . . I didn’t read any of it because I didn’t think it would be fair to read it without you, and . . . anyway, I wasn’t sure whether I should read it at all. Maybe I should just give it to you, right? I mean, if I’m not your collaborator anymore — I mean, am I? — and does that mean I’m not part of the Terces Society, either? But the package came to me, and it was addressed to ‘Max-Ernest the Magnificent’! How ’bout that? And I’ve got a new trick. Actually, a couple. Well, one that I can do pretty well right now. But anyway, my name was on the note, too. So maybe I should read it. You know, if you want . . .”
It was a good three minutes before Cass could get a word in. Finally, she had to grab him by the shoulders.
“Max-Ernest, listen to me. Of course, you should read it. And of course, you’re still my collaborator. And of course, you’re still in the Terces Society. You’re just being crazy, all because Yo-Yoji could tell those notes for us, which is totally ridiculous — anyway, I hardly even know him! And I have a million things to tell you.”
Max-Ernest looked at her in silence for a moment, taking this in. “OK, what?”
She told him about the break-in at her grand-fathers’ store and the broken-up sock-monster on her bed.
“That wasn’t a million things. That was two.”
“Max-Ernest . . . !”
“OK, well, I guess you, I mean, we better find the homunculus fast, before they come back! Maybe it will tell us how in here.” He held up the coiled pages of the Sound Prism file. “I mean, if the homunculus even exists. Which I still doubt —”
“You think it’ll say why the Sound Prism belongs to me, you know, like Pietro said?”
Max-Ernest’s eyes widened. “I dunno — let’ssee.”
Together, they sat down on the ground and leaned back against the remains of the old dog-house. As Max-Ernest held the flashlight for her, Cass began to read aloud from the file.
Although they were shivering, they didn’t seem to notice the cold. Sometimes just having a friend to keep you company can make a freezing night seem, well, a little less freezing.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
The File

Considering the documents in the Sound Prism file spanned five hundred years, there weren’t very many of them.
The oldest was a wrinkled scrap of parchment covered with elaborate calligraphic script:

15 August 1817
For Sir Gilbert, on his Thirteenth Birthday — the day the Boy becomes the Man!
This musical ball known as the Sound Prism belonged to your late father. And before that to his father. And before that to his. I hope you cherish this family heirloom, but beware, the ball is not for play —

Beyond that, the parchment was too smudged to be legible.
Cass put it aside, wondering what it would be like to know not only who your father was, but your father’s father’s father.
The next letter was much more recent. As Max-Ernest shined the flashlight on it, Cass gasped. “Look at this one — it’s from Grandpa Larry! How weird . . .”
“Not that weird. Remember, Mr. Wallace said he was their accountant, right?”
“Yeah, but still —”

Sept. 14, XXXX
Dear Mr. Wallace,
I confess I was surprised when you asked me to examine this “Sound Prism” of yours. Such a whimsical object — and you such a serious man!
I can’t tell much without being allowed to touch it. (Just what are you afraid of?) But I believe it to be carved from alabaster and about 600 years old. Most of the workmanship looks Austrian — but the silver band is more typically English. A later addition?
With what tools the interior was carved I cannot guess. In its own small way, the Sound Prism is an engineering feat to rival the Roman aqueducts.
And that’s all I have to report. Except for a strange coincidence . . . Imagine my shock yesterday when a lady walked in asking if I’d ever encountered a stone “Sound Ball.”
And what a lady! So beautiful! But very cold. I asked if she would sell any of her exquisite gold jewelry, and she just laughed.
Naturally, I didn’t tell her anything about you.
See you at tax time. As usual, our accounts are a mess!
Cheers,
Larry

“Wow, so my grandfather has seen the Sound Prism,” said Cass, putting down the letter. “I wonder if we should ask him about it. . . .”
“So do you think they know . . . ?”
“About the Terces Society?” Cass shook her head. “It didn’t sound like it. . . .” Cass hesitated, then shrugged off the thought. “It’s impossible!”
An old yellowed manuscript took up the rest of the pages. When they saw the title, they both breathed in sharply with excitement.
Max-Ernest still holding the flashlight, Cass sat back and started reading with the same kind of pleasurable anticipation you have when you’re about to read, oh, say, the sequel to a favorite book.

The Legend of Cabbage Face A Gothic Tale
Note: This story is based on oral tales and interviews with older Terces Society members, now sadly deceased. I believe it to be true in essence if not entirely in fact. Like all Society lore, it should be regarded as a sacred trust, and never shared with outsiders.
Signed, Xxxxxxx Xx Xxxx, 1898

Part the First
Four hundred years ago, in the city of Basel, in the country now known as Switzerland, there lived a great doctor.
At a very young age, this doctor rose to the height of his profession, treating grateful patients from all over the country and teaching many adoring students at the university.
And yet he was unhappy. He felt stifled by life in Europe and by the closed-minded state of the doctors around him.
Medicine in those days was not so far from magic, but he aspired to work in ways that even then were considered obscure and dangerous. Unbeknownst to his peers, the doctor was a devotee of that occult practice that is sometimes called the Secret Science, or alchemy.
And so, not much more than twenty years old, he closed his medical practice and left home on a quest to discover all the secrets of the East. He traveled far and wide — consulting the astrologers of Arabia, the metallurgists of Egypt, and the libraries of Constantinople — until he could justly claim that he knew more of the alchemical arts than any other man alive.
And yet he was not satisfied.
For it was not just the common goal of alchemy he was after, the turning of lead into gold, but something far more elusive: power over life itself.
When at last, after years and years of searching, he returned home, he immediately embarked upon another journey: a journey of the mind.
For as many years as he’d traveled abroad, he now remained home, locked in his basement laboratory, never emerging except to collect ever stranger and more exotic ingredients for his experiments. Powders ground from dried bugs. Roots of thousand-year-old trees. Liquids distilled from the blood of animals unknown outside the most remote jungles. Curious, quivering packages his housekeeper dared not peek inside.
At first, his housekeeper had asked about his work, but she soon learned not to question him. When he was younger, the doctor had loved nothing more than to discuss the mysteries of medicine. He had been kind and generous. Now, he was cruel and withdrawn.
He was interested only in himself. And yet he was no longer himself.
Finally, the time was nigh. The alchemist was about to complete his greatest task.
The raging furnace cast a scarlet glow over the cold, dungeon-like laboratory.
But it was a deeper, more internal — more infernal — fire that was reflected in the eyes of the man pacing to and fro across the stone floor.
A fire of ambition so great it had become madness.
Of greed so insatiable it had become a monster.
Never pausing, he checked pots and beakers and decanters, he gauged temperatures, he mixed liquids and poured powders — his impatience growing more feverish with every passing moment.
A door creaked open and a dusty shaft of light suddenly illuminated the laboratory.
“Shut the door, Fräulein! Now!” hissed the al-chemist.
The door slammed shut, but not before the light landed on a large copper tub in the corner of the room. Dark, oozing sludge bubbled inside.
“What have I told you about interrupting me while I’m working? Are you stupid or merely obstinate?”
The woman addressed in this friendly fashion, his housekeeper, stood with her back to the now closed door, holding her hand to her nose.
“I’m terribly sorry, Herr Doctor,” she said nervously. “But the stench — the neighbors are complaining. . . .”
“Does it smell? I hadn’t noticed,” replied the alchemist coldly.
“It’s suffocating! I fear for your health, Doctor.”
The alchemist cackled, as if this were a great joke. “Oh, have no fear in that regard. I’ve never felt better, Fräulein. Never better.”
“But all that . . . that horse dung . . . fermenting for months! Even horses couldn’t bear it. Please allow me to clean it up. What you could possibly want with —”
“Enough! Forget the neighbors. Soon they will worship and fear me and will dare not talk any longer.”
“But you used to have their love — why now do you want their fear?”
“Silence, Fräulein! No more questions. Attend to your housekeeping.”
“Very good, Doctor,” said the housekeeper, clearly unsatisfied.
As she turned to go, a muffled cry echoed in the stone room. “Was that — it sounded like an animal,” she said, peering into the darkness. “Or perhaps a —”
“Perhaps the smell is rather close in here,” said the alchemist. “It seems to be affecting your imagination. Now get out!”
The housekeeper opened the door again and this time the beam of light fell on the alchemist.
“One more thing, Fräulein — I am no mere doctor any longer,” he said, his face floating like some terrible apparition among the swirling particles of dust. “For I have learned secrets long buried under pyramids. Powers known only to the kings of ancient Egypt. From now on, you will address me as Pharaoh. No . . . Lord Pharaoh.”
“Yes, Lord Pharaoh,” said the housekeeper, hurrying out.
When the door closed behind the housekeeper, the newly crowned Lord Pharaoh hovered over the tub in the corner of the room. A large flask was half submerged in the sludge, its glass top glinting in the light of the fire.
Whimpering, gurgling sounds were emitted from the flask.
“Yes, my beautiful, my ugly little creature, your time has come,” said the alchemist, pulling the dripping flask out of the tub and holding it high above his head.
“Oh, miracle of nature. Nay, miracle of man. Nay, miracle of my own hands!” he proclaimed. “The world will behold you with awe — and to me they will bow!”
The flask had a long, narrow neck and a large, rounded bottom. In the dim light, not much of its contents could be seen — except a tiny foot curled up under a little leg and an unexpectedly large nose pressed against the glass.
When Cass read the last line, Max-Ernest let out a little gasp.
Cass looked at him. “Scared?”
“Just keep reading . . . !” Max-Ernest peered over Cass’s shoulder to see what came next.
“Can’t I take a breath?” said Cass. “Besides, I thought you didn’t believe in the homunculus, anyway.”
“Yeah, but it’s still a good story.”
“Even though you don’t think it’s true? Then how come you always say you only like nonfiction?” Cass grinned. She was enjoying this.
“Just read already!”
“Here, you read — I’ll hold the flashlight.”

Part the Second
Ten years later . . .
The shimmering ball spun in the air, making a strange and wonderful sort of music. It seemed to incorporate all the sounds and voices of nature and yet to come from another world altogether.
Watching and listening from the opposite end of the king’s throne room was a creature no less fantastical but far more earthly.
Normally, this creature — although called many names he had no name to call his own — hated crowds. They always stared and pointed and threw things. But he found if he concentrated on the wondrous, spinning instrument — if instrument indeed it was — then he could almost ignore the faces of the courtiers lined up on either side of him.
He felt a tug on his iron collar, followed by the sharp crack of a whip on his shoulder. His master was urging him forward.
“Your Majesty, Lord Pharaoh and his Homunculus!” a royal guard announced with a flourish.
The Homunculus — for he was the creature so described — shuffled forward, his shoulder still smarting with pain.
“Lord Pharaoh, is it?” asked the heavyset monarch sitting on the throne.* “And who granted you that title?”
“I beg your forgiveness, Sire. A village magician’s folly — that is all,” said Lord Pharaoh, bowing with uncharacteristic and clearly unfelt obsequiousness.
The King nodded impatiently. “So this is the miraculous creation we have been hearing about, is it? The Bavarian marvel. He doesn’t look like much — just another carnival dwarf.”
Lord Pharaoh kicked the Homunculus from behind — whether to prove the king’s point or to push him forward was unclear.
“If you please, Your Majesty, it is not so much how he looks, as how he was made. . . .”
“Is it true he was made from dung?” asked the bejeweled Queen sitting by the King’s side.
“Not from dung, Your Highness. In dung,” Lord Pharaoh corrected. “He was incubated in a fertile mud that I confess was not entirely savory.”
“Disgusting! He’s a monster!” said a pale woman standing nearby, the Queen’s Lady-in-Waiting. “And so . . . small!”
“So what then is the recipe for this dung-dwarf?” asked the King, silencing the Lady-in-Waiting with a look. “They say you have discovered the secret of the Philosopher’s Stone.”
“Ah, a thousand pardons, but I cannot reveal that, Your Majesty. It may be that I am privy to secrets once known only to the Ancients. But such power, if it fell into the wrong hands —”
“Are you so sure your hands are the right ones?” asked the King sternly.
At this, his master’s face turned red, the Homunculus observed. He knew he would pay for it later, but he couldn’t help being pleased by the sight of his master’s embarrassment.
“You jest, Your Majesty,” said Lord Pharaoh, smiling to conceal his fury.
“I never jest — that is his job,” said the King. He pointed to a small, wiry man who was now holding in his hand the strange musical ball that had so fascinated the Homunculus.
“Yes, His Majesty is not the Jester — for that is I,” said the man, shaking the bells that dangled from his hat as if to demonstrate. “No more is His Majesty the Ma-jester — for that is my mother!”
He threw his ball into the air, punctuating his joke with a few notes of music. Then he burst out laughing, as if he tickled himself so much he couldn’t help it.
“And what else of your creature — does he not speak?” asked the King, ignoring the Jester.
“No, Sire,” answered Lord Pharaoh curtly.
This was a sore subject for the alchemist. The Homunculus knew he would get extra lashings later just because the King had mentioned it.
Lord Pharaoh knew — or strongly suspected — that in fact his creation could speak. Once, when the Homunculus thought his master was away, he’d made the mistake of practicing his speech at a slightly louder level than his usual whisper. His large, fleshy tongue made enunciation difficult, and he’d just managed to say the words “I am Cab —” when the door to his dungeon room flew open and his master entered.
Excited by the prospect of the fame and riches a talking homunculus would bring, Lord Pharaoh demanded that he repeat the words. But the Homunculus never uttered another syllable again — even when he was alone. So little did he want to please his master, he was willing to endure years of beatings to avoid doing what his master wished.
The Jester studied the creature’s reactions as his master spoke about him.
“Truly? Your carnival sensation — hath he not sensation?” asked the Jester. “He hath the nose of an elephant and the ears likewise. As for his eyes, we cannot help but see that he can see. His great tongue — does it only taste and never talk . . . ?”
“Silence, Jester! We do not like the look of you, Lord Pharaoh,” said the King, pronouncing the name with disdain. “But we think perhaps we are safer with you in our court than without. You will be our guest for as long as you wish to stay in our Kingdom.”
“Thank you, Your Majesty,” said Lord Pharaoh, bowing with as much humility as he could muster.
A royal guard stepped forward to escort them out.
“Where sleeps the Homunculus — with the servants?” asked the guard.
“With the livestock,” said Lord Pharaoh, fixing the Homunculus with a hard, angry stare. “He is dumb like an animal so he will lie like an animal.”
“Methinks he lies not like an animal, but like a rascal. And he be not dumb but would not speak,” said the Jester with a twinkle in his eye. “If my thought be shrewd, he is no more fool than I!”
“But you are a fool, Fool!” said the King, laughing. “And you are hard on the poor creature.”
“Not half so hard as his master. I inflict only puns; he inflicts punishments,” said the Jester.
“Mind your own business, you meddlesome idiot!” hissed Lord Pharaoh, his mask of politeness slipping.
“But fooling is my business,” said the Jester, tossing his ball into the air.
The Homunculus stared at the ball as it started once more to sing.
Max-Ernest turned the pages over. “I can’t read if you don’t shine the light on it. . . .”
“Sorry, I just wanted to see the Sound Prism again,” said Cass, unwrapping the object she had just dug out of the ground. It glowed in the darkness. “It’s definitely the ball in the story. It has to be.” She looked at Max-Ernest, waiting for him to contra-dict her.
“What? I agree. It’s the ball in the story. . . .”
Cass nodded in satisfaction and shone the flashlight on the manuscript again.
“But that doesn’t mean the rest of the story is true.”
“Why do you have to take the fun out of everything? It’s like when you’re reading a book, and you’re really into it, and then at the end the writer says it was all a dream . . . I hate that!”
“I didn’t say it was a dream.”
Cass sighed. “Never mind. Just read.” She flipped the manuscript back over for him and pointed to where they were on the page.
Part the Third
He might not get much sleep, but, at least, the Homunculus reflected, it wouldn’t be a cold night.
The pigpen was nothing if not warm. The pigs were packed so tight they could barely turn around. Steam rose with every snort and kick and bowel movement.
Alas, warm did not mean comfortable. These pigs were not cuddly creatures. Instead, they had mottled bristly coats caked in mud and feces, and they had hard hooves and hungry mouths and long, fight-sharpened tusks.
In short, they were hogs. Swine.
The Homunculus cowered in the corner of the pen, waiting for the hogs to realize he wasn’t one of them, and that he had quite possibly been left for them to eat. And yet he bore them no resentment. He felt an affectionate kinship with these beasts — and not only because their snouts resembled a bit his own. They too were helpless captives, condemned to feed on scraps, never satisfied, forever hungry.
Ah, hunger.
Hunger was his first memory, his only memory. Before the red glow of the furnace there was hunger. Before the cold stone walls of his dungeon room there was hunger. Before the painful blows of his master there was hunger. Before the jeering crowds there was hunger. This gnawing pit inside him. This never-healing wound.
His master never fed him more than the bare minimum necessary to keep him alive — and sometimes not even that much. Often, he had to feed on the cockroaches that found their way into his room. If he was very, very lucky, and the housekeeper took pity on him, he might get a bone to gnaw on now and then. Bones were his favorite food. He sucked out the rich, buttery marrow as if his life depended on his extracting every last drop.
If only he could have some bone marrow now!
He looked at the hogs around him, weighing the odds: if he struck first, would he eat or would he be eaten?
Lost in his bloody reverie, he didn’t notice the tune playing in the barnyard outside the pigpen until it was quite close. But his attention finally shifted to the ethereal music — so utterly unlike his muddy, grunting surroundings that it seemed to come from some other plane of existence altogether.
“Where art thou, my little ’Munculus?”
The Homunculus saw the Jester’s face peering into the pen before the Jester saw him. Instinctively, he recoiled. No one had ever sought him out before except to throw rocks at him or worse.
“Ah, there you are — if not a pearl among swine, then certainly the Earl!” proclaimed the Jester with a laugh. “Here — I have brought you dinner. From the table of the King, no less!”
He tossed a turkey leg into the pen. The Homunculus caught it with his large hand — and immediately devoured it, bone and all.
“What? Nary a thank-you?” teased the Jester. “Are you but a hog, after all?”
The Homunculus did not answer, but he looked up from his drumstick long enough to lock eyes with the Jester.
“Speak, Dung-boy! Prove thou art not pork but person!”
Addressed so directly, the Homunculus trembled uncontrollably. He did not how to react.
“Fear not your master. He is nowhere near. We are alone among animals. And unless they also speak, your secret is safe,” said the Jester more gently.
“Come now, are we not alike, you and I?”
The Jester removed his hat, revealing for the first time his ears — they were unusually large and pointy.
“Can you talk? If you can, I wouldst talk with you.”
The Homunculus could not have said why he answered the Jester, when for years he had refused to speak. He was so unfamiliar with kindness that he did not recognize it; and yet he responded like a kitten to its first bowl of milk.
“I c-can,” he whispered.
“What’s that? I didn’t hear you.”
“I can,” said the Homunculus more loudly. “I can speak.”
“Well done!” said the Jester, smiling.
Hearing his first words of praise, the Homunculus’s chest swelled with a feeling others might have known as pride. And something strange happened, something that had never happened before no matter how hungry he’d been or how hard his master had beaten him — he cried.
“Oh, talking is not so bad as that,” said the Jester. “True, most people say only silly things when they speak. But it’s easier to ignore them if you’re saying silly things yourself.”
The Homunculus stared, uncomprehending.
The Jester laughed. “So he can talk but he knows not a joke. What use is that? But perhaps I can teach you to laugh. Fancy that — a Jester for a teacher! That makes for a joke already!”
Unfortunately, the homunculus’s unexpected speech had roused the hogs, and they were now closing in on him with hungry suspicion.
“Here, beat them back with this,” said the Jester, throwing an oaken staff into the pen. “We must act fast if you are to escape. Methinks the hogs are easier to outrun than the King’s hounds.”
As soon as the Homunculus had extracted himself from the pigpen, the Jester stopped him with a raised hand. “Wait, my friend. What are you called? I cannot rescue a man if I know not his name!”
“But I . . . have no name,” stammered the Homunculus.
“No name? Impossible. They must call you something.”
“Only mean things. Awful things. Except sometimes . . .” The Homunculus hesitated.
“Yes?”
“Sometimes, the housekeeper, when my master is not around, she . . . she calls me her little Cabbage Face.” The Homunculus covered his face with his large hand; years of taunting had made him immune to most embarrassments, but this was something else altogether.
“Cabbage Face, eh?” The Jester laughed. “It suits you perfectly!”
The Jester tossed his ball thoughtfully.
“Your master made you a monster. Your name will make you a man.”
“So Cabbage Face is the homunculus’s name!” Cass exclaimed.
“How ’bout that? I can’t believe we didn’t think of it,” said Max-Ernest. “Or did we? Now, I can’t remember. . . .”
“Do you think that’s true — that your name makes you who you are?”
“No. That’s silly. Like, if your name is Dakota, you don’t suddenly turn into a state. I have two names and I’m not two people.”
Yes, but he often acted like he was two people, Cass wanted to say. Instead, she asked, “Why don’t you think Lord Pharaoh gave the homunculus a name? You know, like Frankenstein or something.”
“Actually, Frankenstein wasn’t Frankenstein’s name. He was just a monster — Frankenstein was the man who made him. You know, Dr. Frankenstein. So that would be like calling the homunculus Lord Pharaoh. Which would be kind of funny considering the way he treated him. I mean in the story, not that he really —”
“Yeah, I get it!” said Cass. “Let me read the last part —”

Part Conclusive
It is said that a Homunculus must serve his maker — for that is the nature of a Homunculus.
But it is also said that if the maker takes advantage of his servant, and treats him too much like a slave, then the Homunculus will take vengeance on his maker and run away — for that, too, is the nature of a Homunculus.
The Homunculus called Cabbage Face ran far, far away from his master, Lord Pharaoh. Never resting, he crossed oceans and deserts, mountain ranges and city slums. Until the day Lord Pharaoh caught up with him and the Homunculus at last confronted the man who should have been to him a father, but instead was a mortal enemy.
When the Homunculus had vanquished his master, the homunculus buried his remains far from the eyes of those who knew him. So that never again would another person — whether for greed or glory or science — repeat the mistakes his master had made, the Homunculus buried with him the means of the Homunculus’s own making: the alchemist’s secret notes and diaries, his recipes and ingredients, and the leftovers of his awful experiments.
And then the Homunculus laid himself down across the grave of Lord Pharaoh. Henceforward, he would protect the grave from the world — and, more importantly, the world from the grave.
Yet, in all those years, and forever after, the Homunculus never forgot the Fool who freed him. Before he ran, he made to this funny man a solemn vow: that when the Ball called, he would come.
And he always did. He always has.
The End
Cass put down the last page in wonder.
“So do you think the Sound Prism really has the power to call the homunculus?” she asked.
“Well, it would be sort of crazy if it did. And kind of scary. But it looks like Mr. Wallace thinks it’s all made up —”
He shone the flashlight on the back of the last page, where there was a handwritten note:
The Legend of Cabbage Face, indeed!
It is well known that the author of this story, my predecessor’s predecessor’s prede-cessor, fancied himself a great writer and novelist. Here, I fear, he let his literary ambitions — and his imagination — get away from him.
The fact that the Jester appears really to be a jester proves this “legend” to be just that. A hat with bells? Ridiculous! If we know anything, we know that our noble founder was a man of science, not a fool!
And a talking homunculus? Sentimental claptrap! If such a creature ever existed, he must have been a monster, incapable of thought or feeling.
Still, we know that the Masters of the Midnight Sun search even now for Lord Pharaoh’s grave. So perhaps there is a grain of truth here, after all.
Deserves further study. — W. W.W. III
“Mr. Wallace is a sourpuss!” said Cass when she’d finished reading.
“Come on, be honest — you don’t really believe that some alchemist made a little guy out of horse . . . poop . . . five hundred years ago, do you?”
“In poop. Not out of poop.”
“And he’s still alive? And he even talks?”
“I don’t know. All I know is we promised to find him, whether he talks or not. Are you going to help or aren’t you?”
Cass looked at him expectantly. She needed Max-Ernest in fighting shape. Or whatever the Max-Ernest version of fighting shape was. She couldn’t afford to have such a waffling, moody partner.
Max-Ernest nodded and extended his arm.
This was serious business, and they both knew it. Whoever or whatever the homunculus was or wasn’t, the fact remained that Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais were looking for him — and that alone made their job extremely important.
And extremely dangerous.
They shook hands, both beginning at last to feel the chill.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
A Short Chapter About a Small Matter

STATE BOARD OF HEALTH
Division of Vital Statistics
CERTIFICATE OF LIVE BIRTH

After Max-Ernest had gone, Cass stood for a moment in the Barbie Graveyard contemplating what they’d read.
How odd that the Jester had pointy ears. . . . She wondered if Max-Ernest had noticed.
A breeze rustled through the yard, stirring the autumn leaves. And a small piece of paper fluttered in the air, landing at Cass’s foot.
It must have slipped out of the wand, thought Cass.
She shone her flashlight on the paper as she picked it up off the ground. It was a rather formal-looking document:

STATE BOARD OF HEALTH
DIVISION OF VITAL STATISTICS
Certificate of Live Birth

I’m sorry I can’t tell you the name of the girl listed on the birth certificate. Or who her parents were. Or what city she was born in. But it hardly matters; Cass didn’t recognize the names herself.
And yet something about the birth certificate bothered her — what?
Of course — the birth date! It was the same as her own. What a strange coincidence. Almost like discovering a long-lost twin sister.
So why had the birth certificate been in the Sound Prism file?
A dreadful realization struck her: the Terces Society had made a mistake. They thought she was this other girl.
It was the other girl, not Cass, who was supposed to have the Sound Prism. It was the other girl, not Cass, who was supposed to hunt the homunculus.
Cass knew she ought to tell Pietro right away.
But what if he took the mission away from her? She couldn’t bear the thought.
What good would that do, anyway?
Obviously, he didn’t know where the other girl was or he would have given the Sound Prism to her.
On the other hand, if Cass found the homunculus, the Terces Society would be so grateful, it wouldn’t matter who she was.
Staving off her pangs of conscience, Cass slipped the birth certificate into her pocket and walked back into the house.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
GARBAGE FACE

Tommy! Tommy!”
The cries of Tommy’s older brother ring in our ears — blocking out the song of the Sound Prism.
We are at the lake again. But on the other side.
Here we spy a little boy, maybe two or three years old. Tommy — we assume it’s Tommy — is about twenty yards from the tent, just out of view of the older boys. He appears totally carefree, laughing and playing among the wet rocks. He runs this way and that, skirting the edge of the lake, oblivious to the possibility of falling onto something sharp or drowning in the icy water.
Thankfully, he turns away and starts running in another direction altogether. What’s drawing his attention — something in the air maybe? A dragonfly? At any rate, he heads away from the lake and — oh no! — straight into the woods.
He disappears into a tunnel of brush so small it looks as though it was made for him. Most people wouldn’t be able to follow him into the tunnel —
But we have no trouble. We don’t even have to duck.
Soon the brush opens up and young Tommy finds himself in a forest glade. A beam of sunlight peeks through the clouds and lights up the trees. Delighted, he spreads his arms and spins around and around until he falls dizzy in a heap on the ground.
In the background, the older boys’ voices are heard again, but fainter than before. “Tom-my! Tom-my!” they cry. “Where are you? Come back!”
Tommy giggles and staggers to his feet. They’re playing his favorite game — hide-and-seek! But where to hide? He looks around. There are almost too many options. Big rocks. Giant ferns. Fallen logs.
A tall fir tree has been hollowed out by fire, leaving a small charred cave at the base of the tree — perfect.
He runs stumblingly toward the tree. In his haste, he doesn’t notice us darting past him.
Nor does he notice the sound his footsteps are making. It is the sound of crunching bones. The whole glade is littered with them.
By the time Tommy reaches the tree, we are inside, looking up at him. We let out a low, guttural grrrrrrrowl.
“Kitty . . . ?” he asks. “Doggy . . . ? Doggy go ruff-ruff!”
His pudgy hand reaches into the hole, and —
Cass woke up gnawing on her own hand, her pillow covered with slobber.
She shuddered in horror. What had happened to the little boy?
Cass jumped out of bed, trying to shake off her dream. When had she started believing her dreams were real, anyway? Probably, there was no boy and never had been. According to Max-Ernest, there might not even be a homunculus.
And even if there were a homunculus, according to that birth certificate, she was the wrong girl to be dreaming about him.
In any case, she had a job to do.
They’d decided the next step was to come up with a list of likely locations for the homunculus. After all, he hadn’t come when she’d played the song of the Sound Prism the first time. Maybe they needed to be closer to the homunculus for him to hear.
Suddenly, Cass stiffened: on her Wall of Horrors, directly in front of her, was her dream. Well, the lake in her dream. In black-and-white. And blurry. But unmistakable nonetheless. There were the same jagged mountains in the background. And the same graveyard on the side of the lake.
BEAR OR BIGFOOT?
Three-Year-Old Boy Survives Mountain Encounter
She’d cut the article out of the newspaper a month or so ago, realizing that she was unsure how to respond to a bear attack (was it true you were supposed to play dead?), and she’d been disappointed that the article provided no instructions.
With an uncomfortable prickling sensation in the back of her neck, she reread the article now:
Whisper Lake— On Monday, forest service officials reported a mountain miracle.
For the last few weeks, a very hungry bear has been haunting Whisper Lake, a popular campsite for backpackers. According to a local ranger, the bear steals food and garbage from all the campers who stay at the lake — no matter how well it’s hidden.
“Eats everyone’s dinner — the sneak! Getting ready to hibernate for winter, I guess. A long winter,” said the ranger.
Locals had taken to calling him Bigfoot — because of his big appetite. And because, until this past weekend, nobody had seen the elusive ursine in person — only his tracks.
But then three-year-old Thomas Xxxxxx went missing at Whisper Lake.
When his older brother told their parents that Thomas was lost, the family immediately sought help. For three hours, rangers searched, to no avail. They all feared the worst.
“Then Tommy came stumbling back into the campsite — laughing like nothing was wrong,” said his brother.
Tommy said he’d been playing in the woods with a little monster. Rangers are certain the monster was in fact the bear because of the name Tommy had for him, “Garbage Face.” . . .
Garbage Face!?
It couldn’t be a coincidence. It was too close to Cabbage Face.
The question in Cass’s mind was: which came first?
Did she dream about Whisper Lake only because she’d read the article? In which case the bear was just a bear.
Or were her dreams telling her something, showing her something, something . . . she didn’t know what the word was . . . else?
A dream was the fulfillment of a wish, Max-Ernest had said.
Her dream was so horrifying that it was hard to imagine that it fulfilled anything other than her worst fears. On the other hand, she had wished to locate the homunculus — could her dream have located him for her?
There was only one way to find out.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
POP QUIZ

You have five minutes to complete the following quiz. No flipping back through what you’ve read. And No. 2 pencils only, please.

Circle one:
A homunculus is:
a.        my little brother
b.        a large glob pulled out of your nose
c.        a wrestling hold
A sea anemone eats with its:
a.        mouth
b.        tentacles
c.        I can’t say in polite company
The Sound Prism is:
a.        a special mental trick for locking out the sound of your parents yelling at you
b.        an album by the 70s rock band Pink Floyd
c.        an idea that makes no sense
Sigmund Freud said:
a.        A dream is the fulfillment of a wish.
b.        Beans, beans, the magical fruit, the more you eat, the more you toot.
c.        I know you are, but what am I?
Feedback is:
a.        throw up
b.        a really horrible sound
c.        when I tell Pseudonymous Bosch his book stinks
What is the Secret?
a.        the secret of immortality
b.        never take your eyes off your opponent
c.        a lot of butter
What happens next in this book?
a.        How should I know? You’re the writer!
b.        If I told you, I’d have to kill you.
c.        nothing good
OK. Time’s up. Pencils down.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
Quaking OR Trembling

One of the first rules of parenting — or so I hear — is that you should always be consistent with your child. If you tell your daughter she’s grounded for a month, well, then ground her for a month. Otherwise, she’ll lose respect for you and she’ll run wild like a heathen.
Cass’s mother, I’m sure, was fully aware of this rule. She probably had every intention of keeping her word in regard to Cass’s freedom or lack thereof. But you know what they say about good intentions.
By the time Cass asked her mother if she could go camping with her grandfathers, her mother was itching for Cass to get out of the house just as much as Cass was. That’s the only explanation I can think of for why Cass’s mother didn’t instantly refuse Cass’s request.
Cass: “It’ll still be like I’m grounded — I mean, they’re practically my guardians.”
Mom: “You won’t have any fun, right?”
Cass: “Promise! No fun at all!”
Mom: “And you won’t have any desserts while you’re gone?”
Cass: “None!”
Mom: “You won’t even put any chocolate chips in your trail mix?”
Cass: “None!”
Mom: “Not even any peanut butter chips?”
Cass: “None! I’ll put raisins in. And you know how much I hate them. It’ll be the worst punishment ever!”
Mom: “And you’ll do everything Larry and Wayne tell you?”
Cass: “Everything!”
Mom: “Except when it’s crazy or dangerous or they’re just getting sidetracked because there’s something they want for their store?”
Cass: “Except then!”
Mom: “Even though that’s pretty much all the time?”
Cass: “Even though.”
Mom: “And you won’t run off without telling anyone — on this trip or ever again?”
Cass: “I won’t. I promise.”
Mom: “OK, then. You can go. But don’t tell anyone I let you!”
Cass: “Thanks, Mom. You’re the best. By the way, you have to watch Sebastian while we’re gone. That’s the only way I could get Larry and Wayne to go — Bye!”
Mom: “Cass, come back here right now! I am not changing some blind dog’s diaper — and I thought you said they asked you to go!”
Cass: “Sorry, can’t hear you!”
Even on a good day, the firehouse was so crammed it was hard to move around. Now that it was a staging ground for a backpacking trip, it looked like a refugee camp after a hurricane.
Max-Ernest lugged in all his camping equipment — including two brand-new backpacks, one red, one blue — only to find himself stuck right inside the door; there was just too much stuff for him to move farther.
Yo-Yoji was already there, standing by Cass’s side. He looked at Max-Ernest like Max-Ernest was insane. “Dude, why do you have two backpacks —?”
Wait. Halt. Freeze.
Let me guess: you’re wondering what Yo-Yoji was doing at the firehouse. Was he actually invited to go backpacking with them, you want to know.
I don’t blame you — I’d be surprised, too.
Here’s what happened:
The three kids had remet in detention the day after Cass decided they had to go to Whisper Lake.
While Max-Ernest furiously redid his math homework (even though it was correct the first time), Cass peppered Yo-Yoji with questions about backpacking:
“What kind of mosquito repellent do you use?”
“What kind of water purifier do you like the best?”
“Have you ever been caught in a storm?”
Yo-Yoji was happy to answer. However, if Cass and Max-Ernest were going backpacking, he said, he was going with them. Indeed, he downright insisted.
“I know you guys are going on some kind of cool secret adventure, and I don’t care if I’m invited or not — this time you’re not leaving me like at the tide pools, yo!”
Of course, Cass denied that they were going on a secret adventure, but instead of trying to dissuade him, she turned to Max-Ernest:
“What do you think — should we let him? I mean, he’s gone backpacking before and we haven’t. What if we get separated from my grandfathers? I have my compass and maps and everything, but it’s different to have somebody with experience.”
I don’t know how Max-Ernest would have reacted if Cass had said straight out that she wanted Yo-Yoji to come on their trip, but by appealing to his logic, she’d put him in a corner.
All Max-Ernest could say was: “That makes sense.”
“Cool,” said Yo-Yoji. “Everybody else in this school sucks. They’re all boring Amber clones. You guys are the only interesting ones.”
Cass’s ears had reddened — or at least pinked — hearing this praise.
Max-Ernest had remained absolutely expressionless, as if he’d decided he was done with emotion altogether.
Now, back to the fire station:
As they assembled for the backpacking trip, Cass was on pins and needles, anxious to see how well — or not — the two boys would get along. I think that’s why she intervened so quickly when Yo-Yoji asked about Max-Ernest’s two backpacks.
“He has to do everything in twos ’cause of his parents — it’s kind of complicated,” she said, stepping between them. “But seriously, Max-Ernest, why don’t you just leave one? Your parents won’t even know.”
“Yeah, but I’ll know. And if I pick one and not the other, it’s like —” Max-Ernest shuddered. “Anyway, they both have wheels.”
“Those aren’t even the right kind for backpacking,” said Yo-Yoji. “This is what you’re supposed to have —” He picked up his backpack and handed it to Max-Ernest, who handed it right back without allowing himself to show any interest.
“See how light it is,” Yo-Yoji continued. “My parents are really strict about packing. I’m not allowed to carry anything heavy. Like toothpaste. Or changes of underwear.”
“That’s gross,” said Cass.
Yo-Yoji laughed. “I was just kidding — partly. We’re allowed underwear. But my parents are pretty serious. Everything we eat has to be freeze-dried.”
“Well, don’t tell your parents, but we’re going to be eating a little better than that,” said Grandpa Larry, who was tying a big pot to an old army backpack. “Even if it means sweating on the way up.”
There are any number of Whisper Lakes in the world. Perhaps not as many as there are Emerald Lakes or Mirror Lakes, but plenty nevertheless. Look on any given map and you have a good chance of finding one.
That is why I feel no compunction about naming the lake to which our young heroes now headed. Furthermore, I do not hesitate to tell you that their destination was high, high up in the mountains; after all, a multitude of lakes exist at high elevations.
What I will not tell you is where the trailhead was. Only that it was in the foothills of a famously rugged mountain range, separated from a small dirt parking lot by a deep gorge.
As soon as Grandpa Wayne’s truck pulled into the parking lot, Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji hopped out.*
“You better go now, if you have to,” said Cass to Max-Ernest. She pointed to the decrepit outhouses by the side of the lot. “’Cause once we’re in the mountains, you have to dig a hole and bury it. And you have to make sure you’re far away from any lakes or rivers, otherwise you contaminate the water. Right?” she asked Yo-Yoji, eager to show she knew what she was doing — even if she’d never been backpacking before.
He nodded. “Yeah, pretty much.”
Alarmed, Max-Ernest eyed the outhouses. Their doors were half open, flies buzzing in and out.
“We’re just going for two nights, right?” he asked, clearly wondering whether he could hold it in the whole time.
After they’d all braved the port-o-potties — even Max-Ernest, who’d sounded from the outside oddly like he was reciting multiplication tables while he went to the bathroom — they hoisted their backpacks on their backs.
“Here goes nothing!” said Grandpa Wayne.
“Just breathe in that fresh mountain air,” said Grandpa Larry. “It’s like fuel — it’ll take us all the way to the top!”
A wooden footbridge spanned the gorge, leading to the trail. Next to the bridge, a message board stood under a wooden overhang. Flyers warned against bears as well as various other high-country hazards. “No campfires?!” said Larry. “How’re we going to make s’mores?”
“We better not,” said Cass. “You want to start a forest fire? Plus, campfires pollute. Do you know that in Yosemite it gets smoggy from all the campfires?”
“We’ve been making fires in Yosemite since before you were born, young lady,” said Grandpa Larry.
“I hope you’re not going to be one of those kind of campers,” said Grandpa Wayne. “Or I’m turning around right now.”
Yo-Yoji laughed. Cass marched forward with her nose in the air.
But as she crossed the bridge, she slowed, looking down at the tops of ferns and a small waterfall that might have been a mighty force in the springtime but right now didn’t roar so much as purr, lulling the innocent passerby.
Did the water flow all the way from Whisper Lake? Cass wondered. What would they find at the end of this hike? Friend or enemy? Man or monster? Or would they only find a mockery of her dreams?
Cass reached behind her and felt the bottom corner of her backpack: yes, the Sound Prism was still there. Why did she feel as though it might disappear at any second?
After a short climb out of the gorge, the trail rose gently for the first half mile or so, wending its way through a forest of pale-trunked trees that flickered in and out of the shadows like an old black-and-white filmstrip; the silver-dollar-sized leaves rustling as if other, much larger beings were walking among the trees.
“Quaking aspen,” said Grandpa Larry.
“Also known as trembling aspen,” said Grandpa Wayne.
Soon, the hikers emerged from the aspens to find themselves walking across a golden meadow surrounded by pine trees. Although it was autumn, a few wildflowers remained, and dandelion spores floated lazily in the sunshine.
“See, the mountains aren’t only about survival,” said Grandpa Larry to Cass.
Cass rolled her eyes, but there was no denying the beauty in front of them.
By the time they’d crossed the meadow, their shoes were muddy and the mood of the hike had changed; they stared up at a steep, wide, and totally bare mountainside. The trail zigzagged across it.
Switchbacks.
A word sure to strike terror in the heart of any hiker.
As they traversed back and forth, inching up the mountain, Grandpa Larry tried to entertain them with stories about previous travels. Stories with which Grandpa Wayne invariably had some minor quibble.
Like: “Oh, come on, Larry, you know you were never in the Peace Corps!”
Or: “But you couldn’t have hiked the entire Andes range — it stretches all the way to the bottom of South America!”
Or: “Funny, the way I remember it, I was the one who fixed the Land Rover and diverted the lions!”
But eventually, even Cass’s grandfathers fell silent.
Max-Ernest, who was pulling one of his backpacks behind him even as he carried the other on his back, looked like he was having the hardest time. “So, if you’re such a backpacking expert, how much longer do you think it is to the top?” he asked Yo-Yoji between big sucks of air.
“I dunno, I’ve never been here before.”
“Well, how much farther then?”
Yoji looked up the mountain. “Like a quarter mile?”
“So how long should that take us?”
“I dunno — twenty minutes?”
Max-Ernest kept checking his watch.
“OK, it’s twenty minutes, and we’re not at the top,” he announced twenty minutes later.
“No kidding. I guess I was wrong.”
“Well, how long do you think now?”
“I don’t know. It’s hard to tell ’cause of all the false peaks. Ten minutes maybe.”
“It’s ten minutes,” announced Max-Ernest ten minutes later, to Yo-Yoji’s extreme annoyance. “I thought you were the backpacking exp —”
“Hey, Max-Ernest — you want my pedometer?” Cass interrupted before he could finish his sentence.
Max-Ernest shrugged unpleasantly but he took the device out of her hand.
“You put it on your shoe and it says how far you’ve gone.”
“I know,” said Max-Ernest, attaching the pedometer to his shoelaces. He pushed ahead, dragging his second backpack behind him.
Cass watched anxiously. Should she say something more? She decided to leave him alone. Besides, she was breathing so hard, she couldn’t really talk.
As it turned out, it took another thirty minutes — and another “point eight miles,” according to Max-Ernest, who’d checked the pedometer at every step — to get to the top of the switchbacks.
It took three more hours — and “two point six miles” — to get to Whisper Lake.
They reached the graveyard first. It was to the right of the trail sloping up behind the remains of a stone gate. Slabs of broken rock — once tombstones — dotted the hillside. A few crumbling statues stood under the spindly pine trees.
“Who’d get buried all the way up here?” Grandpa Wayne asked. “Miners?”
Grandpa Larry shook his head. “This cemetery is hundreds of years old — there was no mining community here then. Very curious. We’ll have to come back tomorrow —”
Cass stopped by the gate as her grandfathers and Yo-Yoji forged ahead. Max-Ernest lingered with her.
“Is this it?”
She nodded, picking up a handful of pine needles, as if to confirm that they were real. “It’s just like in my dream. We must be in the right place.”
She waited for Max-Ernest’s rebuttal, but he just shivered, evidently as spooked as she was. Nobody had been buried in the graveyard for a very long time. But the sense of death still lived.
“C’mon,” said Cass.
Yo-Yoji was looking at them curiously from down the trail, and she didn’t want to arouse his suspicions.
When the hikers first caught sight of the lake through the trees, the sun was setting, the lake a sparkling gold. But as they walked closer, the sun disappeared, and the lake turned lead gray and ominous — as if the gold had been some kind of alchemy at work and now they were seeing the lake’s true colors.
Across the lake, mountains climbed steeply, treeless and bare save for a few luminous patches of snow. At the top: the jagged, toothlike peaks Cass remembered from her nightmares.
They chose a campsite that backed up against a small cliff with roots dangling out of it.
“How about over here by this tree stump?” Cass asked.
Yo-Yojji shook his head. “Too many rocks. Look at that one, right in the middle —” He pointed to a piece of granite sticking up out of the ground. In his other hand, he held his parents’ bright yellow backpacking tent — still rolled up.
“Max-Ernest, what do you think?” Cass asked.
“Whatever you guys think.” He continued looking at the boulder-strewn lakeshore about ten yards below.
“Well, I think this is perfect because we can say whatever we want without them hearing us.” Cass nodded toward the opposite end of the campsite where her grandfathers were erecting their tent — a patchy contraption in fading camouflage fabric that billowed dust whenever they touched it.
“OK, but don’t blame me if you can’t sleep ’cause there’s a rock in your back,” said Yo-Yoji.
After they put up their tent and pulled their sleeping bags out of their stuff-sacs to air, Grandpa Larry handed Cass a length of rope and a pillowcase, and he asked the kids to collect all the food they wouldn’t be eating for dinner.
“We have to tie the other end of the rope to a rock, so we can throw it over a tree branch and pull it up,” Cass explained to Max-Ernest, checking for Yo-Yoji’s reaction.
He nodded. “Like a piñata.”
“You guys do it — I’m not very good at throwing,” said Max-Ernest, stepping out of the way, still refusing to let himself participate, or even smile.
As Cass and Yo-Yoji took turns trying to toss the rope over a tree limb, a ranger reined his horse next to their campsite and saluted them. “Make sure you get that bag good and high. I suppose you heard some bear’s really been having at it lately.”
Cass’s grandfathers joined them, and the ranger asked to see their wilderness permit — which, I’m surprised and delighted to report, Larry and Wayne were able to supply.
“Alrighty, then, be safe, y’all! It’s a bit nippy because it’s late in the season — but on the bright side you’ve got the place to yourselves. . . . Hey, before I go, anyone know why they call it Whisper Lake?” The ranger smiled at the kids. “If you’ve ever been fishing early in the morning, then you can probably guess. It’s because of the way sounds — even the softest little whispers — carry across the water. Most lakes it only happens at dawn — but happens here in the evenings, too. So be careful what you say, if you don’t want anyone to hear your secrets!”*
He waved and gave his horse a kick.
Yo-Yoji looked at Cass and Max-Ernest. “Well . . . ?”
“Well, what?” asked Cass.
“Are you going to tell me what we’re doing here, or you still keeping everything secret?”
“We’re just going camping — that’s all,” said Max-Ernest.
“Yeah, right. I thought we were friends. . . .”
“We are,” said Cass.
“But not enough to tell me. . . .”
Visibly disappointed, Yo-Yoji headed down to the lakeshore and started skipping rocks.
Cass and Max-Ernest watched, not moving.
“I feel bad — I wish we could tell him,” said Cass.
“Well, we can’t!”
As the ripple rings spread across the water, the plunking of the rocks echoed in the twilight.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
SUMMONING A Ghost

*In my last book, I crossed out Chapter Thirteen hoping to ward off Bad Luck. It didn't work. So this time let's keep the Chapter in - and see what happens.

Yo-Yoji had a mummy-style sleeping bag with a pull cord that closed up the top. He liked to burrow inside and pull the cord as tight as possible, leaving only a quarter-sized circle of light to spy out of.
Tonight, though, he found himself tossing and turning because he was too hot; he loosened the cord and unzipped the side of the bag to let a little air in.
Half asleep, he stuck his head out and looked around the tent. It was hard to see in the dim light but — was it possible the other sleeping bags were empty?
“Cass? Max-Ernest?” he whispered.
Getting nervous, he patted their sleeping bags.
Where were they?
He forced himself to sit up and think.
He knew there was something they weren’t telling him, and whatever it was, he suspected that it might be dangerous.
Had something happened? Could they have been kidnapped? Or worse?
Then he remembered that they’d insisted that he sleep in the back of the tent so they could both be nearer the entrance.
Max-Ernest: “I have claustrophobia!” Cass: “I pee ten times a night!”
He’d accepted their arguments at the time, but now he realized the real reason they wanted him in the back: they’d been planning to sneak out while he was sleeping.
The moon had not yet risen, but the stars were bright enough to see by, and Cass and Max-Ernest had no trouble finding the boulder they’d picked out earlier in the evening. It was the size of a truck and had the advantage of being visible from all sides of the lake.
When they climbed to the top, they found themselves on a natural platform, roomy enough for two kids — and, if all went according to plan, one homunculus — to stand comfortably.
Down below, they could see their campsite, and beyond the campsite the graveyard, shrouded in darkness.
To the other side of their campsite was the lake, ink black save for the occasional twinkle of a reflected star. The lake was ringed by pine trees, the front row in a natural outdoor amphitheater. Above the trees, the silvery mountains rose on all sides. It was as if Cass and Max-Ernest were onstage in front of an audience of giants.
Cass pulled the Sound Prism out of her jacket pocket. “I feel like we’re trying to summon a ghost,” she said.
“They usually do that with crystal balls, not sound balls,” Max-Ernest pointed out. “Not that I believe in them — I mean, in ghosts. Crystal balls are real, obviously. They just don’t necessarily —”
“Yeah, I get it. You ready?”
He was.
“OK, here goes nothing.”
Cass stood on the edge of the boulder and tossed the Sound Prism into the air. But she was so nervous that she let go too early; it was like trying to serve a tennis ball, right when the PE teacher is watching you.
The Sound Prism emitted only a short whistle before she had to lurch forward and catch it.
Taking a breath, she tried again, this time releasing the ball directly upward. It climber higher than it ever had before, playing its haunting tune under the night sky.
When the ball crested, it seemed for a moment to hover, singing, before falling back into Cass’s hand.
Cass tossed again — even higher this time. And the music grew more forceful, echoing across the lake, from mountain to mountain, until it sounded like an entire celestial chorus was singing in harmony.
They listened in wonder.
“If he’s here, he’ll definitely hear that — he won’t even need to see us,” said Max-Ernest. “He’ll find us by echolocation — you know, like bats.”
“I just hope my grandfathers don’t hear us first,” said Cass.
She peered down at the campsite: no movement — so far.
The last echoes of the Sound Prism died away.
Then:
“Shh — what’s that?” whispered Cass.
There was a scrabbling sound, as if something were trying to climb up the boulder. They waited, tense —
Until Yo-Yoji pulled himself up onto the boulder and joined them.
“Wow!” he said, catching his breath. “That Cabbage Face song sounded so trippy — and kinda beautiful!”
They exhaled — relieved and at the same time chagrined to see him.
“So let me guess — this is a secret meeting.”
Silence. Cass and Max-Ernest looked at each other.
“C’mon, dudes. I hiked all the way up here, same as you. And now you’re not gonna let me in on the fun part?!”
“Well . . .” Cass hesitated. “You know how before you were joking about a secret society?”
“Cass, we can’t! What about the oath?!”
“Well, we never took it, did we? Besides, I’m sure Pietro would understand if it was the only way we could catch the homunculus.”
Max-Ernest held his head in his hands. It was too late now.
Yo-Yoji looked from Cass to Max-Ernest and back. “What’s a homunculus?”
Cass calmly explained to Yo-Yoji that they were looking for a five-hundred-year-old creature made in a bottle.
“Ha, good one! You should write some songs for my band.”
“No, I’m serious,” said Cass.
Yo-Yoji stared. “Whoa. You’re even crazier than I thought.”
Max-Ernest, previously the naysayer, defended their sanity:
“Just because nobody knows about something, doesn’t it mean it can’t happen. If you’d seen the Midnight Sun — well, some of them are almost that old!”
“If you say so. . . .” Yo-Yoji clearly didn’t believe them, but he seemed ready to be proved wrong. Or up for a thrill, anyway. “So, then, what happens now?”
“We wait,” said Cass.
As she spoke, a sudden breeze whipped across the lake.
For a second, all their senses were on alert.
But nothing happened. Nobody arrived.
Except a chipmunk who scurried under their feet and then dove under the boulder.
After that, a profound silence fell over the lake.
If you’ve ever spent the night camping in the mountains or out in the desert, you know this kind of silence.
A silence so total it makes you think you’ve never experienced silence before.
A silence that makes certain kinds of people feel like they have to talk in order to fill it.
People like Max-Ernest.
After about three or four or five (or was it only two?) unbearable minutes of quiet, he pointed at the sky. “Look at all the stars — I don’t think I’ve ever seen so many. There’s Venus — not that it’s a star, it’s a planet. And the Milky Way — which is a galaxy, so it’s a bunch of stars. And the Big Dipper — which is a constellation. And the Little Dipper. And Orion’s Belt. And . . .” He trailed off, overwhelmed by the sheer scope of the exercise.
“Hey,” he picked up after a moment, “did you ever think about the fact that you’re just a speck on a planet that’s just a speck in a galaxy that’s just a speck in a universe that’s probably just a speck in the fingernail of some giant alien being that’s too big to even imagine? How ’bout that?”
“Can’t we just concentrate on the little alien being we’re waiting for?” Cass asked.
“You know, technically, he’s not an alien, he’s — yeah, okay, fine.”
And they waited.
And waited.
Jumping every time the wind picked up or one or the other of them made the slightest movement.
An hour passed.
“OK, that was fun and all. But maybe it’s time to face it, your little homunkey isn’t coming,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Or else he came and he got scared. Because there are so many of us,” said Max-Ernest, eyeing Yo Yoji meaningfully.
“That’s a good point,” said Cass. “You guys go into the tent. I’ll stay out here and keep waiting.”
“All right,” said Max-Ernest, already looking for the best way down. “Maybe that’s a good —”
“No, it’s not!” said Yo-Yoji. “We can’t leave her out here alone.”
“Why — OK, you’re right.” Max-Ernest turned back, shooting an annoyed glance at Yo-Yoji. “We can’t leave you, Cass. It’s not safe. Anything could happen.”
“You mean like a homunculus could come?”
“Exactly.”
“Isn’t that why we’re here?”
“Yeah, but they’re some real-life scary creatures out here, too,” said Yo-Yoji. “Remember the bear?”
They waited another twenty minutes or so. Their teeth started to chatter.
“C’mon, let’s go,” said Cass.
Something inside her had just given up.
What had made her think they’d find the homunculus at Whisper Lake, anyway? Her dream, that was all. A dream she’d probably had only because she’d read the article on her wall.
The bear was just a bear, after all.
Bleak with disappointment, she took a last look around, then followed the others off the boulder —
Unaware that every sound they made was being heard all across the lake.

CHAPTER TWELVE
MAN, BEAR, OR... MONSTER?

Cass awoke to find the interior of their tent filled with a soft yellow glow.
Was it daylight already?
She propped her head up and looked around. Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest were both fast asleep in their sleeping bags.
Max-Ernest still wore his watch: three a.m.
Craning her neck, Cass peered out through the tiny space left at the top of the tent’s zipper.
A full moon hung above the mountains. It shone like a searchlight across the lake.
Snap!
Cass’s ears tingled. Her hairs stood on end.
Snap! Snap!
Twigs breaking — that was the sound.
Was it . . . ? Could it be . . . ?
Afraid to move, Cass crouched on top of her sleeping bag.
She knew she was being silly; she should go look outside. This was why she had come. To meet the homunculus — if it really was he.
And if it wasn’t — well, what was there to be afraid of?
Unless it was the bear.
Probably, Larry or Wayne had gotten up to go pee. It was one of them stepping on the twigs — it had to be.
But it would be comforting to know for certain.
Snap! Snap! Snap!
Crack!
Now she could hear actual footsteps. On top of the twigs. And they were coming closer.
It didn’t sound like a bear. Not that she’d ever heard a bear’s footsteps before.
It didn’t sound like a grandfather, either.
Cass looked over at Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji, ready to shake them awake. But they were already sitting up. Eyes wide with fear.
They didn’t have a plan, Cass realized in a flash. All this time, all this effort had gone into getting to this moment — and they hadn’t planned on what to do next.
After reading “The Legend of Cabbage Face,” Cass had simply assumed the homunculus would be friendly. But what if Mr. Wallace was right and the legend was wrong? What were they supposed to do then?
Fight the homunculus? They had no weapons.
Trap him? They had no chains. No net.
Follow him? But why? To where?
None of them moved a muscle. They didn’t dare. They only waited.
Then, suddenly, silhouetted against the side of the tent:
Hands — huge hands. And ears — huge ears.
And, for a second, in profile:
A nose — a really huge nose.
It was not a bear. It was not a grandfather.
It was, without doubt, a monster — a huge monster.
Why, Cass wondered fleetingly, did the dictionary say a homunculus was small?
For a moment, he just stood there, his shadow rippling on the yellow tent fabric — as if he were contemplating whether it would be best to rip the tent open or to devour the tent whole.
Silently, Cass pointed to the tent entrance. “Should I open it?” she mouthed.
Her friends nodded — and gave her the courage she needed.
While they watched, she unzipped the tent and stepped out into the moonlight.
Cass got one look at the startled creature standing on top of the tree stump next to the tent before he —
Toppled to the ground with a thud.
“Ow! How dare you scare me like that!” he complained in the surliest and most gravelly voice Cass had ever heard.
Grumbling to himself, the homunculus got back up on his feet. He looked up at Cass with disdain as he brushed dirt and pine needles off his toddler-sized trousers. “Don’t tell me it was you who called me!”
The image on the side of the tent hadn’t been entirely misleading: in fact, his hands were big, if not huge; likewise his eyes, ears, nose, and mouth. It was his legs and arms that were teeny, as well as his torso (although his tummy protruded more than a little).
Cass stared down at him. She couldn’t believe he was only —
“Two feet tall. In answer to your very rude question. Oh, don’t pretend — I can see it in your eyes. Almost two feet. More like twenty-three inches. Or twenty-two. Well, twenty-one inches. And a half. Don’t forget the half!”
Cass nodded, still staring.
The resemblance to her sock-monster was striking, but no more so than his outfit. In a crazy mishmash of centuries, he wore a ruffled shirt under a velvet waistcoat in the style of a Renaissance painting; his cap looked like something a newspaper boy might have worn a hundred years ago; meanwhile, his shoes, a young child’s sneakers, couldn’t have been more than a few years old at the most.
A large skeleton key hung around his neck, giving him an unexpected dignity.
“Well, was it you?” the homunculus demanded.
Cass nodded again.
“You mean you have the Sound Prism? Oh, say it isn’t so!” He clasped his enormous hand to his much smaller forehead.
“I . . . uh . . .”
“Cat got your tongue?”
“Are you . . . ?” Cass stammered.
“Spit it out!”
“. . . Cabbage . . . Face?”
“Who told you that?” He pointed a fat accusatory finger up at her. “And that’s Mr. Cabbage Face to you!”
“Sorry. It’s just . . . we got the name from the Sound Prism.”
As she spoke, Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji had slipped out of the tent.
“These are . . . my friends . . . Max-Ernest . . . Yo-Yoji. . . . This is, um, Mr. Cabbage Face. . . . Oh, and I’m Cassandra!”
They stared down at the homunculus with undisguised amazement. He stared back with an expression of scornful skepticism — insofar as he could manage from his low vantage point.
“Oh, it’s you guys! I thought you were the bear!”
The kids froze. It was Grandpa Larry. Sticking his head out of his tent.
“What are you doing up? It’s three in the morning!”
“Um, I had to go to the bathroom — then they did, too!” Desperately, Cass motioned for the homunculus to hide behind her. Which he did with a shrug and a scowl.
“Well, go back to bed. It’s cold out here — and I don’t want anyone getting sick!”
After Grandpa Larry zipped his tent back up, Cass turned to the homunculus.
“Sorry if I wasn’t who you were expecting,” she whispered. “I’m not sure whether the Sound Prism is really supposed to be mine or not. But I promise — we don’t mean you any harm.”
“We’ll see about that. If it’s really yours, then you should be able to tell me the Jester’s name — not just mine.”
“But how would I —?”
“Well, it’s inside the Sound Prism, isn’t it? If you’re truly the heir of the Jester, then you’ll be able to open it. If you can’t, this is our last conversation. If you can, come find me tomorrow. Around lunchtime —”
“Where?” asked Max-Ernest.
“By the Hollow Tree. You’ll find it —”
“But how will we —?”
But the homunculus was gone by the time Max-Ernest finished asking the question.
The three kids looked out into the darkness, lost in wonder: if the homunculus was real, if the homunculus was possible, then what wasn’t?

CHAPTER ELEVEN
A TRAIL OF BONES

Stolen! And nobody heard a peep!” exclaimed Grandpa Larry.
The kids had emerged from their tent to find the sun shining and Cass’s grandfathers standing over an empty pillowcase and the remains of their food supply. They were both shaking their heads.
“How the heck did he get it down?” asked Grandpa Wayne, sounding more impressed than angry. “He must be the first bear with opposable thumbs!”
“And so picky, too!” marveled Grandpa Larry. “He took our Zinfandel and the Camembert. But look — he left the cup-o-noodles and the instant oatmeal. . . .”
“A gourmet bear — that’s a first!” said Grandpa Wayne. “Maybe he has a future in the circus.”
“An eating bear? I don’t think it has the same ring as a dancing bear. Now maybe if he could cook. . . .”
The kids looked at each other. They were all thinking the same thing: that bear was no bear at all.
“Anybody want to go fishing after we make the oatmeal?” asked Grandpa Wayne. “I figure we better catch lunch while the trout are still biting.”
“With that thing?” asked Cass, pointing to the taped-together fishing pole leaning against the tree next to Wayne.
“So what — you think the fish are going to notice?”
The kids laughed.
“If it’s OK, we’ll just hang out here,” said Cass. “Then maybe go on a little hike a little later.”
“Well, don’t go too far. We don’t want to get in trouble with your mom,” said Larry.
As soon as her grandfathers left to go fishing, Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji crawled back into their tent.
“Come on,” said Cass. “If we don’t figure out the name of the Jester before lunch, the homunculus will never come with us!” She pulled the Sound Prism out of her sleeping bag and held it up.
“So how do we open it?” asked Yo-Yoji.
They’d spent about an hour the night before trying to answer this very question. Until they’d all fallen back asleep.
Cass touched her finger to the silver band that circled the Sound Prism. “Are you sure these don’t mean anything? They’re just lines?”
“No, I’m not sure sure — how could I be?” asked Max-Ernest. “But if the Decoder didn’t pick up anything I don’t see how we could.”
“Can I see it?” Yo-Yoji took the ball from Cass and turned it around in his hand.
“Careful,” said Max-Ernest. “It’s very old and very valuable.”
“Hey, look —” Yo-Yoji succeeded in loosening the band. It spun around —
“I told you — now you broke it!”
“Dude, first of all, why are you hating on me all the time?”
“Wha-what do you mean?” Max-Ernest sputtered. “I’m not —”
“Yeah, sure you aren’t! Second of all, I’m pretty sure it’s supposed to spin like this.”
“What? Like a combination lock or something? Let me see,” said Max-Ernest, obviously very skeptical. He reached for the Sound Prism.
“No, let me,” said Cass, reaching at the same time.
As they collided, the Sound Prism dropped out of Yo-Yoji’s hand. It fell onto a bump in the middle of the tent — and it split evenly in two.
“It hit the rock!” Yo-Yoji picked up a half in each hand, peering inside one after the other. “Well, the good news is we got it open. There wasn’t a trick — it was just stuck.”
“What’s the bad news?” asked Cass.
“Look — there’s no name inside, just a poem.”
Engraved in the alabaster, the poem spiraled around the inside of one half of the Sound Prism. The tiny letters looked like the inscription on the inside of a ring.
“Here, you read it,” Yo-Yoji said, handing the two halves to Cass. “I’m kind of dyslexic.”
Max-Ernest looked at Yo-Yoji, as if about to say something.
But then Cass started to read aloud:

My brother is A, the god of the sun: he gave me his wand; I gave him my lyre. My father is Z, god of all and one: I gave him my word; I'm no more a liar. No more am I a thief, just god of thieves; See, What need I to Lie or Cheat or steal? I have tricks in my cape and up my sleeves; I have wings on my helmet and my heels. I put wit on thy tongue and in thy head, and when I touch thine eyes thou know'st it's time to cross the River Styx and join the dead. And the last thing thou hearst will be my rhyme. For in the end it is all just a game; that's all thou need'st to know to know my name.

“Aaargh, it’s so annoying — we don’t have time for this!” said Cass, putting down the two halves of the Sound Prism. “What does it mean? What’s the name?”
Yo-Yoji shook his head. “I’m not really good with this kind of poem — the kind I write don’t rhyme. Plus, it’s, like, in Shakespearean.”
“I think it’s kind of like a riddle — you can tell by the way it ends,” said Max-Ernest. “Can I see it? I mean, if I’m allowed.”
“Ha-ha.” Cass rolled her eyes and handed him the two halves of the Sound Prism.
Max-Ernst looked inside —
“Well, the river Styx is from Greek mythology, right? It’s the river on the way to Hades. . . .”
“Yeah, maybe . . . I mean, OK,” said Cass.
“Think about it — that means if it was a secret code, Greek mythology would be the key. So A is Apollo and Z is Zeus . . .”
“Nice!” said Yo-Yoji, looking at Max-Ernest with new respect. “You’re pretty good at that stuff, huh, bro?”
“I guess. Hey, Yo-Yoji . . .” Max-Ernest hesitated. “Well, one of my doctors thought I was dyslexic, so I know lots of exercises you’re supposed to do. I could show you. If you want.”
“I don’t usually like exercises very much, but, um, sure, if you think they’re good. . . .” Yo-Yoji wasn’t all that much better at emotions than Max-Ernest, but he had an idea what Max-Ernest was trying to say.
Cass smiled to herself. She knew better than to ruin the moment by saying anything.
Cass’s grandfathers didn’t seem at all surprised by the kids’ sudden interest in fly-fishing, or in their even more sudden interest in Greek mythology. Grandpa Larry loved mythology as much or more than Grandpa Wayne loved fishing, and he considered it perfectly natural that his granddaughter would ask him who the Greek god of thieves was.
“Ah, well, there’s a story that goes along with that,” Larry said as Wayne cast out over the lake with his makeshift fishing rod. “You see, before he was really the god of anything, and he was just a mischievous little boy god, he stole a herd of cows from his big brother, Apollo. Apollo went ballistic and in order to appease Apollo, Zeus made him return the herd. Problem was — two cows were missing. Their hides had been turned into strings and strung over a tortoiseshell, making the first lyre. Luckily, Apollo loved music so much that he forgave his little brother, and even gave him his magic wand in return for the lyre. And that’s how this little boy became not only the god of thieves, but the god of magic as well.”
“That’s a great story,” said Cass impatiently, “but what was the god’s name?”
Finding the homunculus’s trail wasn’t very difficult; they identified it by all the bones and scraps and candy wrappers that the homunculus had left in his wake.
Following the trail was another matter. In order to avoid all the low-hanging branches, they had to crawl most of the way.
“Ouch! These scratches aren’t good for my eczema,” Max-Ernest complained as he pushed branches out of his face. “And I know my allergies are going to get really bad —”
“Forget your allergies,” said Cass. “If we don’t have the name right, we’re going to have a lot worse problems.”
They knew they were getting there when the bones on the ground started appearing closer together: mostly little leg and thigh bones but there was the occasional whole carcass (bird? squirrel?!) and two or three bones from larger animals that the kids preferred not to identify.
Finally, about a quarter mile from their campsite, they reached a clearing in the woods. Here the bones were so dense they created a carpet. It was a gruesome but — with the dappled sunlight and canopy of trees above — a not unbeautiful sight.
On the other side of the clearing, surrounded by a circle of rocks, a campfire blazed. A pillar of smoke curled upward. The smell of grilling meat filled the air.
“Look at that,” said Max-Ernest. “What if the ranger sees?!”
“Forget the ranger — what if there’s a forest fire?” said Cass.
“I dunno, smells pretty excellent to me,” said Yo-Yoji.
Behind the fire stood a tall fir tree with a burned-out base; they all jumped, startled, when the homunculus stepped out of it.
“It better smell good — I’ve been cooking all morning. And don’t worry about the ranger — I know his schedule. He’s on the other side of the mountain right now.”
Cass decided not to lecture him about fire safety.
Instead, she took a brave step toward the homunculus and asked, “So, um, Mr. Cabbage Face, was the Jester’s name Hermes?”
“Shhh!”
“But you said . . .”
“Sure, sure, but names have power. In case you didn’t notice, mine made me rise from a grave.”
“Sorry, I didn’t think about that,” said Cass, pale.
“So do you want your three wishes, Cassandra?”
“I get three wishes . . . ?”
“Of course not! Why does everybody always think I’m some kind of genie?” The homunculus made a loud hacking sound that might have been a laugh. His brown, broken teeth made his mouth look like a jack-o’-lantern.
“You know, I would have found you eventually — if you’d just called me a few more times,” said the homunculus, studying Cass. “Pretty resourceful, tracking me here in the mountains.”
“She’s a survivalist,” said Max-Ernest proudly.
Cass looked down, suddenly embarrassed.
“Ah, well, that explains it! Come now, we can talk business later. Let’s eat.”
The homunculus made them all sit around the fire. Nearby, he’d laid out piles and piles of food on a bed of pine needles.
“Hey, that’s our food — you stole it!” said Max-Ernest, recognizing the Camembert.
“Don’t get your knickers in a twist — it’s not all yours. Some of it’s from other campsites. Besides,” continued the homunculus blithely, “that Camembert needs at least a week before it’s going to be ripe. And this Zinfandel has no nose at all. How can you drink such mediocre wine? Now, if you like, I have a wonderful Châteauneuf-du-Pape courtesy of some hikers from Montreal.” He held up a fancy bottle of wine. “Those fellows had taste!”
Yo-Yoji stopped him before he could start pouring. “Um, do you have anything else? We don’t really like wine.”
The homunculus looked appalled. “You don’t drink wine?! Don’t tell me you’re beer drinkers! I didn’t take you for such ruffians.”
They shook their heads.
“We don’t drink beer, either,” said Max-Ernest.
“Ah, so then it’s liquor for you,” said the homunculus, relieved. “I agree, quite right — why monkey around with the soft stuff? So what can I get you — vodka? Gin? I have a very nice single malt scotch.”
They shook their heads.
“Tequila with a squeeze of lime? Not the classiest, true, but what the heck — we’re camping, right?”
They shook their heads.
“A drop of cognac?”
They shook their heads.
“Why are you insulting my hospitality like this?” The homunculus looked at them, distressed.
“We’re kids. We drink soda and stuff,” said Max-Ernest.
“You know what’s in soda? Sugar and food coloring. And diet soda? Worse. I refuse to let you destroy your bodies with soda!” The homunculus drew himself up in a huff.
Cass was about to point out that it was little hypo-critical for him to forbid soda when, judging by all the wrappers they’d seen, he ate plenty of candy, but then she thought better of it.
They compromised with lake water (purified with tablets Cass had in her backpack). And then they proceeded to feast on all the stolen goods. Or rather, the homunculus did. The others didn’t have much of an appetite.
All they could do was stare at the long gray hairs that sprouted from his nose and his ears — and try to avoid smelling his breath.
“I’m sorry there’s so little,” said the homunculus, his mouth full of cheese.
He held a charred sausage in one hand and a barbecued drumstick in the other. He might have looked like a munchkin, but he ate like a T. rex. “I have to make do with what’s around. My life isn’t what it used to be. Gone are the days of dining with King Henry the Eighth. . . .”
“You ate with Henry the Eighth?” asked Max- Ernest.
“In a manner of speaking. I ate with his hogs.”
“So that story we read was true? About you escaping from the hogs with the Jester?” Cass asked eagerly.
“Well, I don’t know what you read — I’m sure people write all kinds of things about me. That happens when you’re a celebrity. But yes —”
The kids watched in fascination as he sucked the marrow out of a chicken bone with lightning speed, then tossed the bone onto a pile behind him.
“And the Jester — was he really a jester?” asked Cass.
“Of course — why wouldn’t he be? Not the funniest maybe — although he thought he was. You know what they say about not laughing at your own jokes? Well, he never learned it.”
“I knew it,” said Cass. “And what about Lord Pharaoh?”
The homunculus scowled. “What about him?”
“Well, the story said that you . . . met each other years after you ran away. What happened?”
“I ate him,” said the homunculus, biting into his sausage.
The kids couldn’t hide their looks of horror.
He smiled, sausage juice running down his chin. “Oh, don’t worry — I cooked him first. I’m not a barbarian. Sadly for me, he was not a young man anymore, so he wasn’t very tender. But even old flesh isn’t bad, if you know how to prepare it properly. The key is to brown the meat first to seal in the juices.”
The kids all shifted nervously on their pine-needle seats.
“What’s the big deal? Meat is meat! You know what they say — tastes like chicken, right? Although, honestly, more like pork . . .”
“I don’t care how it tastes, I couldn’t ever eat a person.” Cass shoved her pile of food away as if it were the person in question.
“I thought you were a survivalist! You’ll never last in the wild if you’re so squeamish,” said the homunculus. “Personally, I would consider it an honor to be eaten — assuming I was already dead, of course.”
“Can you die?” asked Yo-Yoji.
The homunculus eyed him suspiciously. “Why do you want to know?”
“Uh, no reason,” said Yo-Yoji quickly. “Except these guys said you were five hundred years old —”
“You forgot to say, and looking pretty good on it!”
Cass pulled the Sound Prism out of her sweatshirt pocket. “So, Mr. Cabbage Face, am I supposed to give this to you? It’s sort of yours, I guess.”
“No, it’s yours. But please — would you play the song? It’s been a while since I heard it up close. Matter of fact, no one’s called me on the Sound Prism for a couple hundred years. Last one was a boy named Gilbert. Excuse me, Sir Gilbert. What a spoiled brat!”
Cass obligingly tossed the ball into the air. It played the same song it always played — but it was different with Cabbage Face himself there.
Listening, the homunculus looked at the ground, lost in time.
Was that a tear in his eye? It was hard to be sure.
She had to ask: “So, then, am I the . . . rightful heir?”
“Of course you are,” said the homunculus. “I could tell the Sound Prism was yours the second I laid eyes on you.”
“You could? How?” asked Cass in amazement.
“Those pointy ears of yours. Just like the Jester’s. Anybody could see from a mile away . . .”
Cass felt her ears reddening at the homunculus’s words. “The Jester? I’m descended from the Jester?”
She couldn’t believe it: somebody else had walked the earth with her big, pointy, target-of-joke-y ears.
She tried to remember everything she’d read about the Jester and the way he’d saved the homunculus from his horrible master. He may have been named after the god of thieves, but the Jester — Hermes — was a hero, and somehow, in some way, he was hers.
Who, then, was the girl named on the birth certificate, Cass wondered suddenly. She was about to ask the homunculus when she realized his information would be hundreds of years out of date. The answer would have to wait.
Max-Ernest pointed to the Sound Prism. “You know, the Midnight Sun are looking for that. They already stole it once.”
“Ah.” The homunculus’s face darkened. “So they’re still at it, are they?”
“You didn’t know? There’s a hundred of them at least — plus Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L. They’re the worst!” said Max-Ernest.
“Well, I don’t get out much these days. Just to get a bite every now and then . . .”
Cass touched her ears to make sure they’d cooled. “The reason they want the Sound Prism is that they’re looking for you.”
“Not for me. For the grave.”
“Grave?” repeated Yo-Yoji.
“Lord Pharaoh’s grave. Where do you think I’ve been all these years? Guarding it. Just in case.”
“Why do they want to find it? Would it be really bad if they did?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Oh, I don’t know — is the end of the world bad? The destruction of everything you hold dear?”
“Why, what’s inside it?” Yo-Yoji persisted.
“Waste. Lord Pharaoh’s waste. The excrement of evil.”
“You mean his” — Max-Ernest reddened — “poop?”
“No — although, believe me, his bowel movements were bad enough! When I was little I had to clean out his chamber pots.” The homunculus shook off the memory. “No, I mean the remains of his alchemical work. I buried it all with him — but as hard as I tried, I couldn’t destroy it. Its power never dies. It only festers.”
“So, it’s kind of like nuclear waste?” asked Cass. “Like radiation?”
“I don’t know about that — but if you say so.”
“You have to come with us. We’ll take you to Pietro. He’ll know what to do. He’s the leader of the Terces Society.”
“The Terces Society?” The homunculus laughed.
“Sure. Why not? They’ll protect you,” said Cass defensively.
“What can they do? Bunch of . . . librarians!” He pronounced the word as if it were a terrible insult. “Just keeping records — how does that help anybody?”
There was silence for a moment. The kids found it hard to defend the Terces Society; after all, they didn’t really know very much about it.
Then Cass did what any good survivalist would do.
She improvised.
“Well, there are also a few chefs,” said Cass, emphasizing the last word.
“Chefs?” echoed the homunculus.
Yo-Yoji jumped in. “Yeah, you should see the meals! They’re like full-on banquets. More food than you could ever eat. . . .”
“I doubt that,” scoffed the homunculus. But they could tell they’d sparked his interest.
“Well, more food than we could eat,” said Max-Ernest, catching on. “But it would be just the right amount for you. All the meat you could want — and they always sear it. Everything’s totally juicy and delicious! Well, not everything. Only the things that have natural juices, I mean, but there are a lot of them! How ’bout that?”
“Yeah, they make crown roast every day, best you’ve ever had,” said Cass. She wasn’t sure what crown roast was, but it sounded like something that somebody who ate with a king’s hogs might like.
“Hmm . . .” The homunculus hesitated. “Maybe it’s not such a bad idea to check in with the Terces Society, after all. Everybody I knew died two hundred years ago. Maybe the new crop isn’t so useless. If they know how to cook a good crown roast, that obviously speaks well of their character.”
“Great!” said Cass. “You won’t regret it.”
“Wait — how are we going to take him back without your grandfathers seeing?” whispered Yo-Yoji.
“Um, we’ll figure it out by tomorrow. . . .” Cass scanned their surroundings, as if the answer might be hidden among the bones on the ground.

CHAPTER TEN 
A HEAVY LOAD

Walking down a mountain, I’m sure you’ll agree, is almost always more fun than hiking up.
For Max-Ernest, however, the descent from Whisper Lake was far more difficult than the ascent to Whisper Lake — because now his second backpack was full.
Thankfully, as Max-Ernest had pointed out earlier, the backpack had wheels, so he could drag it. The problem was: whenever the descent became very steep, the weight of the backpack would push him forward down the mountain. Twice, he’d fallen on his face — although so far he’d suffered nothing worse than a scrape and a bruise.
The third time he fell it looked especially painful.
“Ouch!” / “Aaargh!”
“Are you OK?” asked Grandpa Larry as Max-Ernest picked himself up off the ground. “That sounded pretty bad.”
“Yeah, I’m all right,” said Max-Ernest, but simultaneously he also seemed to be crying out, “Ummph! Ugghh!”
“You sure? You sound like you’re a hundred years old all of a sudden. . . .”
“He’s just got a little cough or something,” said Cass, coming between them.
Max-Ernest forced a smile as the moaning continued. “Yeah, that’s it. Really, I’m fine!”
Grandpa Larry eyed Max-Ernest suspiciously. “All right, but if you’re in any pain at all, we have a first-aid kit. I don’t want to get in trouble with your parents when we get home. I always catch enough from Cass’s mom, right, Cass?”
“Right,” said Cass. Surreptitiously, she gave a little kick to the backpack and the moaning stopped.
“What’s in there?” asked Grandpa Wayne, catching up with them. “Looks kind of heavy.”
“Oh, just some trash,” Yo-Yoji interjected from a few feet ahead. “You know what they say — take only pictures, leave only footprints!”
At the trash comment, a growl of protest issued from the backpack. The kids stifled laughs.
Grandpa Larry smiled, unhearing. “Ah. Such good citizens of nature!”
“We should just be glad Max-Ernest thought of bringing an extra backpack,” said Yo-Yoji. “Definitely came in handy.”
He flashed an apologetic grin at Max-Ernest before continuing to lead them down the trail.
“I’m hungry!”
After hiking, riding in the back of Wayne’s truck felt comparatively luxurious. They lay back against their backpacks, feet up, out of view of the highway patrol.
But they had another issue to contend with:
“I’m hungry!”
A hungry homunculus, in case you’ve never encountered one, is irritable and combative, if not downright dangerous.
Even, maybe especially, when he’s stuck in a backpack.
The kids wouldn’t let him out; they were afraid Cass’s grandfathers would be able to see him through the rear window of the truck’s cab. But they opened the backpack enough so he could eat.
In the first five minutes of the drive, the homunculus called Mr. Cabbage Face (but now known privately to the kids as Mr. Stuff Your Face) ripped through a bag of beef jerky, the remains of Cass’s trail mix, and an old apple that had been sitting at the bottom of Yo-Yoji’s backpack from his last trip.
When he kept complaining that he was hungry, Max-Ernest offered him a pack of gum. The homunculus swallowed every piece in rapid succession.
“You know they say gum stays in your ribs forever,” said Max-Ernest.
“Yeah, well, they say a lot of things, don’t they? And not many of them apply to somebody who’s five hundred years old and made in a bottle! Now what else have you got to eat?”
“Nothing!” said Cass, who was growing tired of his constant harping.
“Oh yeah? You’ve got ten fingers and ten toes, don’t you? Not to mention those ears. A little chewy on top maybe, but those lobes look tender. . . .”
Everyone assumed he was joking — but they all balled their fingers and curled their toes just in case. And Cass lowered her hat protectively.
“Yeah, you hide those little toesies!” the homunculus harrumphed. “See if that stops me from chewing through your boots.”
“Where does he put it all?” the kids asked each other more than once. “And where does it go?”
The answer to that last question became clear soon enough; the homunculus asked for rest stops almost as often as he asked for food.
In order to explain the constant need for bathroom breaks, Cass told her grandfathers that Max-Ernest had “stomach problems.” If Larry and Wayne thought it was strange that Max-Ernest always took a backpack into the bathroom, they didn’t say anything. After all, they’d seen how afraid he was of the port-a-potties.
“It’s kind of like having to take care of Sebastian,” whispered Cass to Max-Ernest, when the truck pulled back onto the highway after a particularly long break.
“Who’s that?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Her grandfathers’ dog,” said Max-Ernest.
The homunculus stuck his head out of the backpack. “Oh yeah? What kind? I love dog!”
“He’s a basset hound.”
“Huh. Not bad. Short legs. You cook them like hot wings —”
“He’s old and he wears a diaper and I’m sure he tastes really really bad,” said Cass. “So don’t get any ideas!”
“Great — not only don’t you have any more food for me, I’m not even allowed to think about eating! You’re a laugh and a half!”
Cursing, the homunculus stuck his head back inside the backpack.
Cass geared herself up for the one other item of business that had to take place before they got home:
“So, Yo-Yoji, I hope you don’t mind, but I don’t really think it’s a good idea for you come to the Magic Museum.”
“What — now that we’re back, you’re gonna act like I didn’t go with you guys?” Yo-Yoji kicked the side of the truck in frustration.
“We might get in trouble. . . .”
“Don’t worry — I’m great with the grown-ups. Besides, you have to tell them about me — I know about the Secret.”
Cass looked at Max-Ernest. He shrugged: Yo-Yoji had a point.
Behind him, purple mountains receded in the haze.

CHAPTER NINE
Meanwhile
* MEANWHILE? DID I REALLY JUST WRITE MEANWHILE? MEANWHILE IS TO WRITING WHAT UM IS TO SPEAKING. A SPACE-FILLER . A SIGN THAT SOMEONE DOESN’T KNOW WHAT TO SAY OR HOW TO SAY IT . MEANWHILE BELONGS WITH PHRASES LIKE ON THE OTHER HAND—PHRASES THAT A GOOD WRITER SHOULD NEVER USE. ON THE OTHER HAND, THERE’S SOMETHING ABOUT MEANWHILE THAT I RATHER LIKE — ESPECIALLY WHEN IT’S FOLLOWED BY AN ELLIPSIS, LIKE THIS: MEANWHILE … CAN YOU HEAR THAT SENSE OF MENACE? THAT SENSE OF, UH-OH, JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO GO BACK INTO THE WATER...

The Midnight Sun schooner had dropped anchor again — this time at a harbor more befitting the luxurious ship than that rotten old dock at which we last saw it.
On all sides there were impressive, massive yachts — the floating mansions of the rich and powerful.
And on the deck of the Midnight Sun there was one very impressed — but not very massive — girl.
Amber, I’m afraid to say, looked rather diminished by her new surroundings. At school, where everyone knew her as the nicest and third prettiest, Amber loomed large in the eyes of her peers and even of her teachers. Out here on the water, stripped of her credentials, she seemed a mere wisp of a thing; she practically cowered in the presence of her twin heroes, the Skelton Sisters, as she met them in person for the first time.
Of course, the invitation had been a fabulous honor. The secret text messages she’d been receiving ever since she got her pink Skelton Sisters twin♥heartsTM cell phone had been thrilling enough. But this time Romi (or was it Montana? she hadn’t dared ask) had called her personally!
Amber immediately made her parents rush her to the ship, which she boarded wearing all of her latest Skelton Sisters twin♥heartsTM fashions and in a state of excitement I can only compare to — well, I don’t know what to compare it to. (Perhaps the excitement you feel meeting the author of a book, he suggested modestly.)
But which sister was which?
Even Amber, who’d watched every single Skelton Sisters twin♥heartsTM DVD ever filmed, and who’d listened to every Skelton Sisters twin♥heartsTM CD ever recorded, and who’d read every issue of every Skelton Sisters twin♥heartsTM magazine ever released, even Amber had trouble telling Romi and Montana apart.
As soon as they’d welcomed Amber onto the boat, and assured her parents that she would be safe alone with them for an hour (“We’ll treat her like she’s our own sister!”), one of the sisters — the pinker one; I think it was Montana — held out (more like dangled) a gift for their young visitor in her gloved hand.
“Wow, thanks! He’s soooo cute!”
Shaking with nervousness, Amber took the little creature from Montana (or was it Romi?). It looked, Amber couldn’t help noticing, just like Cass’s sockmonster — except that it was pink and sparkly and it came on a little jeweled leash you could wear around your wrist. (And I’ll bet it wasn’t hand-stitched by a survivalist, but rather manufactured by child labor in Sri Lanka.)
It also had a large tag bearing the words:

sock♥roach®
a twin♥hearts™ inc. original
by romi and montana

“They come in twelve colors — plus rainbow,” said Montana (or was it Romi?). “If you do everything we tell you, we’ll give you one of each — before they’re even in stores!”
“Really? That would be so awesome!” said Amber, strapping the sock♥roach® to her wrist.
Not to be outdone, Romi (or was it Montana?) took a heart-shaped cupcake out of a pink box. “Here, eat this — it’s from our new chain of twin♥heartsTM bakeries!” she said, tracing the heart and trademark signs in the air with her finger.
Montana (or was it Romi?) gasped. “No! Don’t give that to her — she’s too fat!”
Amber looked down at her stomach in alarm — nobody had ever called her fat before.
“Oh, that’s just baby fat,” said Romi (or was it Montana?). She sniffed the cupcake, inhaling with a look of rapture. Then put it under Amber’s nose. “Doesn’t it smell good? Here — eat!”
“No, don’t!” said Montana (or was it Romi?), pulling Romi’s (or was it Montana’s?) arm away from Amber. “She’ll turn into a pig!”
“Don’t be silly — eat!” said Romi (or was it Montana?), thrusting the cupcake back under Amber’s nose.
“No!” Montana (or was it Romi?) tugged on Amber’s arm to keep her away from her sister. “Just think oink! I’m turning into a pig! That’s what I do whenever I’m about to eat something. It’s, like, my anti-eating mantra.”
“C’mon, one little cupcake never hurt anybody — eat!” Romi (or was it Montana?) tugged on Amber’s other arm, to bring her closer to the cupcake.
“Oink!” Montana (or was it Romi?) tugged the other arm again.
“Eat!” Romi (or was it Montana?) tugged back.
“Oink!” Tug.
“Eat!” Tug.
“Oink, I mean, oww . . . stop!” said Amber, whose face, pink with pain, was beginning to look decidedly piggish.
But the sisters, caught up in their battle, ignored her cry.
“Oink!” Tug.
“Eat!” Tug.
“Oink!” This time, instead of tugging, Montana (or was it Romi?) grabbed the cupcake — but not in time to keep Romi (or was it Montana?) from shoving it into Amber’s helpless mouth.
As the relieved Amber chewed, the two skeletal sisters fell silent and stared at her like starving wolves eyeing a plump chicken. Nobody watching would have been surprised to see them pounce and sink their teeth into her neck.
“It’s really good — don’t you guys want some?” asked Amber, her mouth full.
“NO!” they both yelled in unison.
“Are you kidding?!” asked Romi (or was it Montana?).
“We don’t eat!” said Montana (or was it Romi?), as if the very idea were preposterous.
“We just like to watch,” said Romi (or was it Montana?).
“Here, do you want another?” asked Montana (or was it Romi?), picking another cupcake out of the box. Her eyes glazed, she seemed to have forgotten all about her fears of Amber getting fat.
“Girls — control yourselves! Have you forgotten why we’re here?”
Ms. Mauvais had emerged onto the deck from the cabin below. No longer in her nautical outfit, she was resplendent in gold and she lit up her surroundings as if she were a kind of human beacon.
“You must be Amber,” she said, training her icy blue eyes on the dazzled girl. “I’m Ms. Mauvais. I’ve heard so much about you.”
As if possessed, Amber dropped to her knees and bowed.
“Really, darling — that’s not necessary.” Ms. Mauvais gestured dismissively with her golden-gloved hand.
“Are you . . . a queen?” Amber asked, trembling.
“Ha! No, not . . . at the moment.” Ms. Mauvais made a chilly, tinkling sound that might have been a laugh. “But you are very shrewd — something tells me you’ll go far.”
She stepped forward and stroked Amber’s bowed head as if she were rewarding a little lapdog. “I have a very special job for you, Amber. . . . How would you like to go to a concert?”

CHAPTER EIGHT 
A POLITE WAY OF Saying WEIRD

From the beginning, there’d been a flaw in Cass’s plan: how to get to the Magic Museum once they were home? Their parents would never allow them to go so soon after returning.
Luckily, Cass’s mother had decided to visit her sister while Cass was away (mainly, Cass thought, so her mother would have an excuse to leave Sebastian in a kennel for the weekend) and the house was empty when Cass’s grandfathers dropped off the young campers.
Cass’s mother wouldn’t be home for a couple of hours. Time enough to get to the museum and back — hopefully. Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji could call their parents when they got back to Cass’s house, pretending they’d only just arrived from the mountains.
“Bye!” / “Thanks!” / “Later!”
They waved good-bye and waited to hear Grandpa Wayne’s truck disappear down the road. Then they let themselves out of the house, leaving all the backpacks except one — the one that wobbled back and forth all on its own.
“City buses don’t have seat belts, either,” Max-Ernest noted when they mounted the bus. “Why do you think that is?”
“Funny, I feel totally strapped in, even without a seat belt,” said a muffled voice. “You know, just because somebody spends most of his life underground doesn’t mean he likes being stuffed inside a backpack for hours and hours!”
“Shh,” said Cass. “It’s just a little while longer.”
“Hey, look at her,” whispered Yo-Yoji, pointing to a rather heavyset (which is a polite way of saying fat) and hirsute (which is a polite way of saying bearded) woman sitting on the bus.
“Don’t point — it’s rude,” said Cass.
But all three kids had trouble resisting looking at the Bearded Lady. And in fact, whenever one of them accidentally caught her eye, she winked as if she were used to being looked at — and didn’t mind at all.
When they got onto the second bus, our friends had to try even harder not to stare:
Up front behind the driver sat two little people (which is a polite way of saying midgets), one male, one female, wearing a tuxedo and a ball gown, respectively.
Behind them sat a man who looked perfectly normal, except that his shirtsleeves hung rather loosely (which is a polite of way of saying he had no arms). When the Bearded Lady walked onto the bus, the Armless Man smiled and waved at her with his bare foot — which she then shook exactly as you would shake a hand.
Eerily (or was it just coincidentally?), when Cass and Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji all transferred to the next bus, so, too, did this motley group of bus riders.
“Are they following us?” whispered Max-Ernest nervously.
“I dunno, just act . . . normal,” whispered Cass.
Yo-Yoji laughed. “That’ll be the day.”
On this, the third and last bus, they joined several other unique (which is a polite way of saying peculiar) passengers, including three colorfully costumed comedians (which is a polite way of saying clowns) and one strong (which is a polite way of saying bald, mustachioed, and wearing a leopard-skin leotard) man.
“It’s like the circus is coming to town — aren’t they supposed to be on a train or something?” whispered Max-Ernest, thinking of the pictures they’d seen on the wall of the Magic Museum.
“Where do you think they’re going?” asked Yo-Yoji.
They didn’t have to wait long for an answer.
As soon as they got off the bus, they found themselves in the middle of a noisy crowd of carnies (which is an impolite of way of referring to carnival workers and circus performers) moving en masse in the direction of the Magic Museum.
Over the entrance to the museum hung a bright striped banner:

THE OLE TIME TRAVELING CIRCUS REUNION
WELCOME, FREAKY FRIENDS AND KOOKY COMRADES!

“Hey! Can you can guys go a little easier on me?” asked the homunculus from inside the backpack as it bounced down the stairs that led to the museum’s front door. “And why don’t I smell the crown roast? Are you sure this is the right place?”
“We’re not inside yet,” said Cass. “Just be quiet until we let you out —”
The crowd had gathered in the big room that housed the collection of automata — which, it must be said, looked comparatively harmless next to some of the museum’s new inhabitants.
At the far end of the room stood a very old (which, in this case, is a polite way of saying doddering) man in a top hat and a red coat holding a large ring and a bullwhip — a Lion Tamer? Beside him was a silver-studded (which is a polite way of saying pierced all over) and fully illustrated (which is a polite way of saying tattooed up to his eyeballs) man juggling bowling pins.
Behind them, Pietro — now wearing a necktie rather than his woodworker’s apron — sat on a riser, smiling at the sight of so many old friends. Mr. Wallace sat next to him, a pained expression on his face.
The Lion Tamer spoke, quavering, into a cone-shaped megaphone.
“Hello, dear friends! Our esteemed colleague, Pietro, has brought us here . . . because . . . because . . .” His voice cracked as he struggled to remember. “Because he wants us all to . . . to do a reunion show, that’s it!” He scratched the side of his head. “Odd to call it that, though, considering we just performed last night. . . .”
“You mean, fifty years ago last night!” the Illustrated Man corrected, tossing the bowling pins into the crowd. The Strong Man caught them and started juggling without missing a beat.
The Illustrated Man grabbed the megaphone: “C’mon — let’s show the world what the Circus was like before it was just another way to sell hotel rooms in Las Vegas!”
The carnies all cheered. “Right on!” “Hooray for the Ballyhoo!” “Vegas sucks!” “Long live the Circus!”
“We are freaks and geeks, and we’re not going away quietly!” shouted the illustrated man. “We are nuts and we are proud of it!”
More cheers. “Yay, Freaks!” “Go, Nuts!” “Down with normal people!”
Our young heroes watched from the middle of the crowd, sandwiched between a chess-playing automaton and a heavily whiskered clown in a hobo outfit. They were trying to move toward the Gateway to the Invisible, but it was too tight.
“No grub in this joint, huh?” asked the clown loudly. “What are they thinking? A guy’s gotta eat!”
“Um, uh . . .” Cass panicked.
The three kids looked as one at Max-Ernest’s backpack. But the homunculus didn’t appear to be listening.
“Excuse me, do you folks mind coming with me?” Lily beckoned from the side of the room.
Cass braced herself as they squirmed through the crowd: this was the moment she’d been dreading.
“Hi, Lily,” said Cass when they reached her. “This is our friend — he’s been, um, helping us.” She nervously indicated Yo-Yoji.
Lily nodded. “Hello, Yoji. It’s been a long time.”
While Cass and Max-Ernest gaped in astonishment, Yo-Yoji bowed as deeply as he could in the packed room. “Master Wei.”
“You’ve been practicing, I trust?”
Yo-Yoji shook his head sheepishly. “Just, uh, the guitar.”
Lily looked at him with clear disapproval. “You know what my father always said —”
“Practice makes permanent, I know. I’m sorry.”
Surprised, relieved, and deeply confused, Cass and Max-Ernest glanced back and forth from each other to the boy they thought they knew.
“Yoji was one of my most talented students. It only seemed natural to ask him to help in our cause,” Lily explained a few minutes later. “I hope he has been more responsible in keeping up his Terces duties than his violin.”
They were all standing in the sawdust of the basement workshop, safe for the moment from the crowd upstairs. It was the same group as last time — with the addition of Yo-Yoji and the subtraction of Owen, who was away on secret Terces business.
“Well, we found the homunculus, didn’t we?” said Yo-Yoji, unable to resist defending himself.
Pietro smiled at the kids. “You have all done better than I dared to hope. If only all my projects went so well.” He gestured to the old tree-growing vase, totally disassembled on the table in front of him.
Cass’s ears flushed with pride. The news about Yo-Yoji was disconcerting — very — but Pietro’s words were exactly what she’d been longing for.
“I didn’t believe it was possible, but we met him — he’s real! How ’bout that?” said Max-Ernest excitedly.
“So where are you keeping the homunculus now?” Lily asked them.
“He’s here. We brought him with us,” said Cass.
The adults looked at the kids in alarm.
“I don’t understand — where is he?” asked Mr. Wallace, looking around anxiously as if the homunculus might be locked up in one of the trick cabinets. “A creature like that — he’s dangerous. A thing of evil. Do you have him tied up?”
“He’s not like that,” said Cass. “He’s really kind of nice once you get to know him.”
“Except for the fact that he’s a cannibal,” said Max-Ernest.
“But not in a bad way,” said Cass. “Here — meet him yourself —”
Cass nudged Max-Ernest and he bent down to unzip his backpack, only to find —
“Um, Mr. Cabbage Face?”
The backpack was already open.
The homunculus was gone.

CHAPTER SEVEN
A SPY IN THE BUSHES

They tried the museum’s kitchen first. And saw at once that the homunculus had been there — but left in disgust.
The kitchen looked like it hadn’t seen a meal in years; it was being used to store office supplies. The closest thing to food was a package of microwave popcorn that the homunculus had opened — then scattered without popping, as if to say “thanks, but no thanks!”
Next, they tried the reunion party upstairs.
Cass crawled under people’s legs, hoping to find a trail of corn kernels if not bones, but no such luck.
Max-Ernest thought he saw the homunculus slip into the Gateway to the Invisible, only to see one of the midgets step out a second later.
“Not too hard for him to disappear in this crowd,” commented Yo-Yoji, looking out at the sea of carnies — half of whom looked as weird as the homunculus.
“Well, you’d know better than we would,” Cass snorted.
“Not really. I only met those guys once before. I know about as much as you do.”
Cass looked skeptical.
“Seriously, I didn’t even know anything about the homunculus before you told me.”
“Yeah, because you already had a job,” Cass said stonily. “Us.”
“The only reason I didn’t tell you guys was that they said not to —!”
“Whatever. It’s not important.”
“What’s important is that we just lost a two-foot-tall, five-hundred-year-old man-eater, and we have no idea where he is!” said Max-Ernest, who had been having trouble following the logic — let alone the underlying feeling — behind the conversation.
Giving up, they headed back downstairs.
“Could the Midnight Sun have gotten to him?” asked Lily as they reconvened in the workshop. “If Dr. L or Ms. Mauvais had been here, wouldn’t we have seen them? Perhaps an operative of theirs . . . ?”
“I think he was just hungry,” muttered Cass.
The kids felt miserable. They were all thinking the same thing: that the homunculus had left because they’d lied about the food at the museum.
Cass kept kicking herself for telling him that he would get crown roast. Why hadn’t she thought about what would happen when they got there? Had she expected Pietro to conjure a roast out of thin air?
Pietro never said an unkind word. But that made it worse.
Had he expressed any anger, our young heroes might have defended themselves. After all, they’d brought the homunculus all the way into the museum. Into the workshop, even. How were they supposed to know he’d escape from right under their noses?
But instead of berating them, Pietro tried to hide how worried he was. He even showed Max-Ernest a quick card trick before they went home.*
They were being treated like children and they knew it. There was no discussion of the Oath of Terces. No talk of future missions.
Mr. Wallace never said, “I told you so,” but you didn’t have to be a mind reader to know what he was thinking.
“What about the Sound Prism — shouldn’t they leave it with us? I think it would be safer,” he said.
“But it’s hers — she’s the heir,” Lily reminded him.
They debated as if Cass herself were not present until finally Pietro decided it was best that she keep the Sound Prism. “We don’t know much about this object. Perhaps the Sound Prism, it would not like to be in someone else’s hands.”
But before they left he made the kids promise not to look for the homunculus.
“It’s too risky,” he said. “That much we now know.”
For nights afterward, Cass slept with the Sound Prism under her pillow — right next to her resurrected sock-monster. She was afraid even to keep the Sound Prism buried outside.
Needless to say, she didn’t sleep very well.
The Sound Prism whispered to her in her dreams, seeming to give voices to people and animals and inanimate objects indiscriminately. All taunting her for failing the Terces Society. For failing Pietro. Every barking dog was laughing at her. Every honking car was jeering at her.
And you call yourself a survivalist! they said. You can’t even keep a homunculus in a backpack.
Cass was convinced that the Sound Prism wanted her to call the homunculus again. Or at least that the Sound Prism would make her go crazy if she didn’t call him. But she resisted. If she couldn’t save the world, at least she could prove to Pietro that she could keep her word.
One night, she woke up from an especially restless sleep. A rustling sound was coming from under her pillow.
At first, she didn’t think much of it; she was getting used to odd, unidentified noises. But when she put the Sound Prism to her ear she became certain that the noise it was picking up was coming from the backyard.
An animal perhaps? A cat? No, something larger . . . the homunculus? Was it Mr. Cabbage Face himself looking for her?
She tiptoed downstairs and out into the back-yard in her pajama bottoms and favorite Tree People sleeping T.
Although she held the Sound Prism in front of her, she didn’t hear any more rustling, or much of anything at all. For a second, she thought she heard some kind of drumming, then she realized it was her own heartbeat being broadcast back to her by the Sound Prism.
Slowly, Cass made a circuit around the yard, peering into the darkness.
“Mr. Cabbage Face?”
She waited for a few minutes, hugging her arms against the cold. But there was no response.
And yet, she was certain someone or something had been out there.
Naturally, she thought of Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L — but wouldn’t they already have crept inside to look for the Sound Prism or to kidnap her or to do whatever horrible thing they were going to do?
Perhaps the homunculus had come, but then changed his mind, or thought he had the wrong house?
There was one way to know for sure: if she called him on the Sound Prism, he would have to come.
True, Cass had promised not to look for him, but this was clearly a different situation. And she would try only a small, short toss — a small, short call. Audible only if he were close by.
Cass looked back at her house to make sure no lights had gone on, and that her mother was still sleeping. Then she stood in the middle of the yard and tossed the Sound Prism into the air —
The ball rose a little higher than she’d intended but not so high that the tune would carry all the way around the world. It had been a long time since she’d heard it, and the eerie song was strangely comforting.
Almost immediately, she heard the rustling sound. All of her senses on alert, she scanned her surroundings for a sign of the homunculus. Surely, he would show himself now? Or was he still too angry with her?
She saw a glimmer of light in the bushes behind the Barbie Graveyard —
“Mr. Cabbage Face?” she whispered again.
By the time she reached the spot, whatever or whoever it was was gone.
As a cold, unhappy Cass walked back upstairs to her room, a smug, smiling Amber walked quickly down the street away from Cass’s house.
She held her sparkling pink cell phone aloft like a trophy. And with good reason. On her phone was the freshly recorded song of the Sound Prism.
Ms. Mauvais would be very happy.

CHAPTER SIX
A KNOCK-KNOCK JOKE, A BATHROOM WINDOW, AND A PUKE WORTHY PROPOSAL
*The SKELTON SISTERS LIVE
*The SKELTON SISTERS LIVE

Max-Ernest released the two straws from his mouth and put down his two juice boxes. It had been less than two weeks since the disaster at the museum, but he appeared to be in high spirits.
“How about this one . . . ?” He looked at his lunch companions to make sure he had their attention. “Knock, knock . . .”
“Who’s there?” asked Yo-Yoji gamely.
“I am.”
“Um, ‘I am’ who?”
“No, that was the answer.”
“Just ‘I am’?”
Max-Ernest nodded. “I read that a joke is when you expect one thing, then something else happens. Well, in a knock-knock joke you always think there’s going to be a joke after you say ‘who’s there?’ And I thought, what if there wasn’t a joke — would that be like a joke on a joke?”
“I don’t know,” said Yo-Yoji, laughing. “That’s either the stupidest joke I’ve ever heard or the deepest.”
“I was thinking I could try it in my Comagedy Act in the talent show — that’s what I’m calling my magic-comedy routine. How ’bout that?”
Yo-Yoji grinned. “You’re gonna kill, man!”
“Kill?” Max-Ernest looked alarmed.
“It means you’re gonna rock the talent show. It’s a good thing.”
Cass rolled her eyes. She knew she should be happy about the growing friendship (or was it only a temporary peace?) between Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji; instead, she found it irksome.
She’d never come right out and said what she was afraid of: that Yo-Yoji had never really liked them — her — and had only befriended them because it was his job. But as far as she was concerned, Yo-Yoji was still on probation — and would be for a while.
As Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest continued to discuss plans for the talent show, Amber and Veronica walked toward their table, glancing quickly at Yo-Yoji, giggling, then looking away.
Cass’s mouth dropped: something truly disturbing was dangling from Amber’s wrist.
“Is that your sock-monster?” asked Max-Ernest, aghast.
“No, it’s a copy — I think,” said Cass, furious and more than a bit freaked out.
“But how —?”
Cass couldn’t help it — she had to know. “Hey, Amber,” she asked, trembling slightly, “where did you get that?”
“Oh, do you like it?” asked Amber, sugary as ever, stopping at their table. “I’m not supposed to say where it’s from, but it does say Twin Hearts on it, and that’s the Skelton Sisters — oops!” She put her hand to her mouth. “I almost gave the secret away . . . ! Anyway, I was just telling Veronica, I have six tickets to their concert tomorrow night — which is totally sold out, by the way. They’re going to let me onstage — can you believe it? Do you guys want to go? Not that I can take everybody. I already have a waiting list of thirty people — but I could put you guys on it. I’m going to decide who gets to go later tonight, based on a bunch of things. I can’t say what ’cause I don’t want anyone to cheat.” She seemed to be addressing all of them but she was looking at Yo-Yoji.
“Actually, I kind of think they suck,” he replied. “So . . . no thanks.”
“Well, excuse me for being nice,” said Amber, stung.
“I told you he was a jerk,” said Veronica.
“Let’s go,” said Amber. Cass watched them walk away, each tossing her hair like a girl in a shampoo commercial. Why had she ever had a hard time saying no to Amber, Cass wondered.
And more importantly:
“Hey, you guys — why do you think the Skelton Sisters are letting her onstage? Don’t you think that’s weird? And they gave her all those tickets. . . .”
“Probably her daddy bribed them,” said Yo-Yoji. “Is she rich?”
“I dunno. I don’t think that’s it,” said Cass. In the distance, she could see Amber and Veronica disappearing into the girls’ bathroom. “I’ll be right back.”
She stood up, pulling her sweatshirt hood over her head. Checking to see nobody was watching, she took the Sound Prism out of her backpack and hid it under her hood behind her big right ear.
The window in the girls’ bathroom was small and located high up in the wall; normally, you wouldn’t be able to hear a conversation taking place inside the bathroom if you were outside. But with the Sound Prism, Cass could hear Amber and Veronica talking as clearly as if she were standing next to them. . . .
“No way, dude!” said Yo-Yoji to Cass after she returned. “Forget it! I would rather eat puke!”
“I agree — this is worst idea you’ve ever had in your life,” said Max-Ernest, putting down his two matching hummus sandwiches. “Are you sure you’re not having a psychotic episode?”
What, you ask, could prompt such extreme reactions?
Simple: Cass’s proposal that they all go to the Skelton Sisters concert the following night.
“We have to,” she insisted, pulling off her sweatshirt hood and restowing the Sound Prism in her backpack. “Amber’s like part of the Midnight Sun now. Well, maybe she’s not really in it in it yet, but she was on the boat — and Ms. Mauvais gave her a job! She wouldn’t tell Veronica what it was, but she said that was why she got the tickets and everything. And I have a feeling something bad’s going to happen. I know nobody ever believes my predictions, but trust me on this!”
“But it’s going to be the suckiest concert in history,” said Yo-Yoji. “I think I’ll get ill if I have to hear their music.”
“Yeah, or they’ll just kill us for real — I don’t mean, like, kill in a good way, I mean, like, kill kill,” Max-Ernest added, flustered. “Besides, even if we wanted to go, she said the concert was sold out. We wouldn’t be able to buy tickets. And besides that, our parents would never let us go. And besides that, it’s just totally deranged! I think you may need a doctor.”
Cass listened calmly, not telling them what she was secretly hoping: that the concert would somehow provide a way for them to prove themselves to the Terces Society once more.
“Well, I know how to get tickets — that’s not a problem,” she said.
“How?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“You.”
“What do you mean?”
“Ask for them.”
“Wait — you mean, Amber . . . ? Like, I have to ask her?”
Cass nodded. “She likes you.”
“Oh, man! Is this, like, a joke or something?” Yo-Yoji practically gagged as the full horror of it all sank in. “Now, I’m really going to be sick. Seriously, I think I’m tasting barf!”
“You don’t have a choice.” Cass lowered her voice. “It’s your duty as a society member.”
Yo-Yoji laughed. “I don’t remember getting orders to go to a concert.”
“OK, then — do it because we’re friends. I mean, if we are.”
She looked at him challengingly. This was a test, and they both knew it.
Just as Cass had anticipated, Yo-Yoji had no trouble convincing Amber to give him three tickets.
How did he do it?
I like Yo-Yoji too much to humiliate him by quoting him in full. Occasionally, we all have to eat humble pie.

CHAPTER FIVE
The CONCERT

As far as Cass could tell, she hadn’t been grounded since she’d been back from the mountains. She was never officially ungrounded, but she and her mother seemed to have come to some kind of unspoken agreement to drop the pretense of punishment.
But a concert — an unchaperoned concert — was another matter altogether. Cass had to draw on all her creativity to convince her mother to let her go.
First, she tried the obvious: “Yo-Yoji’s and Max-Ernest’s parents are all letting them . . . !”
“Do I look like Max-Ernest’s mom? You’re lucky I let you go anywhere these days!”
Then Cass tried playing the girl card:
“Is it because I’m a girl you don’t want me to? ’Cause that’s really sexist! I can’t believe you would be such a male chauvinist!”
“Don’t even go there, Cassandra — I was fighting sexism before you were a blink in my eye!”
Finally, she hit on it:
“Plus, Yo-Yoji’s turning thirteen tomorrow, so it’s, like, his bar mitzvah. But he’s Japanese so he’s not really having one. And the only thing he wanted to do was go to the Skelton Sisters concert with me and Max-Ernest. I can’t disappoint him. He loves the Skelton Sisters!”
A lie? Yes. But, I hope you agree, a whitish one. After all, she didn’t know for certain that it wasn’t his birthday.
As for Max-Ernest’s parents, they were delighted that he wanted to go to a concert. For years, he’d never gone anywhere; now he was practically a world traveler.
“Maybe you aren’t agoraphobic anymore!” said his mother.
“Could be you kicked that old agoraphobia!” said his father.*
In fact, they were so delighted that they fought over the chance to take the three kids to the stadium where the Skelton Sisters were performing.
The entrance to the stadium was so crowded the kids almost wished they had a grown-up with them to help them push through.
When they finally managed to reach the front of the line, an usher looked at their tickets suspiciously. “Row A, huh? Funny, you guys don’t look like big shots. You got famous parents or something?”
“Uh, yeah,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Really famous,” Cass added.
“I’ll bet. Some of us have to work for a living! You’re in the Lounge,down there —” He gestured in the direction of the stage.
They thanked him and headed off before he could question them further.
The Lounge wasn’t really a lounge any more than their seats were really seats; it was a roped-off area right beneath the stage, furnished with tables and chairs and rugs and couches — even though it was outdoors.
Inside the ropes, our three friends could see music-industry types in shiny black clothing — and a few very lucky kids — talking and mingling as if they were at a big party and not a concert.
Waitresses wearing pink twin♥heartsTM T-shirts circulated, handing out free twin♥heartsTM cupcakes and bags of Skelton Sisters stuff.
A burly bouncer in a silver jumpsuit spoke our heroes’ names into a headset, then lifted the red velvet rope and let them in past the sign that said VIP Lounge.
“What’s vip mean?” asked Max-Ernest.
“It’s not vip, dummy — it’s V-I-P. Very Important Person,” said Amber, standing nearby with Veronica, a brand-new sock♥roach® dangling from each of their wrists. “But I guess you wouldn’t know that, would you, Max-Ernest? No offense.”
While Max-Ernest’s friends glared at Amber, Veronica giggled as if Amber had just said something very witty.
Amber turned to Yo-Yoji: “I thought you said you were bringing your bandmates from Japan.”
“They couldn’t get here in time.” Yo-Yoji shrugged innocently.
“Well, anyway, I’m so glad you’re here, Cass,” said Amber. “You know we really couldn’t have done it without you!”
Before Cass could ask who “we” were and what they couldn’t have done without her (make a sock♥roach®, maybe?), Amber continued, “You should really try a cupcake — they’re amazing!” And then she sailed off with Veronica to the other side of the Lounge.
Suddenly, the crowd erupted.
Everyone was yelling and cheering and whistling. Girls as young as five and six screamed at the top of their lungs. Even their parents hooted a bit. So many glow sticks waved in the air, it looked like a plague of phosphorescent locusts had descended on the stadium.
Our friends looked up at the stage to see what had provoked such a ruckus: a giant heart made of hundreds of bright pink lightbulbs had just lit up. The Skelton Sisters, in matching silver miniskirts, stood on top, waving to the crowd. The Lounge was so close to the stage that the light was blinding.
“I think my retinas are burning!” yelled Max- Ernest.
Outside the Lounge, the frenzied Skelton Sisters fans pressed against the velvet rope; more bouncers in silver jumpsuits lined up like soldiers to keep them out.
As their band started to play a pounding beat, the Skelton Sisters somersaulted off the heart into the waiting hands of yet two more silver-clad young men.
“I think my eardrums are bursting!” yelled Max-Ernest, eyeing the giant speakers only a few yards away.
“Hi, everybody! Having fun?” Romi (or was it Montana?) shouted at the crowd.
“To kick off the night, we’ve got a special treat for you! Our brand-new single — never performed before!” said Montana (or was it Romi?).
“Oh no —” said Cass to no one in particular.
“What’s wrong?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“I can’t believe it — it’s like I’m having a nightmare.”
A dozen dancers in big fuzzy sock♥roach® costumes had appeared onstage — Cass’s sock-monsters brought to larger than life in a dozen fluorescent colors.
“And to introduce the song, we’d like to bring onstage a special guest — Amber, winner of our You’ve Got the Music in You contest!” said Romi (or was it Montana?).
Amber, looking smugger than ever, was lifted onto the stage by one of the bouncers.
“You’re on, girlfriend!” said Montana (or was it Romi?), handing Amber a microphone.
“Hi. This is such an amaaaaazing honor! Romi and Montana’s new song is called “C’mon, C’mon!” It’s a special message for a special somebody,” said Amber as confidently as if she spoke to crowds of hundreds every night. “And I think it’s their best song ever!”
Then she turned back to Romi and Montana: “Go, girls!”
As the Skelton Sisters started to sing, the giant sock♥roaches® waved their multicolored arms and danced in circles around them.
“Yo, seriously, this music sucks worse than anything I’ve ever heard in my life,” Yo-Yoji grumbled to his friends. “I can’t stay. It’s a crime. Like helping somebody commit murder or something. Let’s bail.”
“He’s right,” said Max-Ernest. “I think this music is going to cause permanent brain damage.”
“No, wait. Listen —”
“Why — you don’t actually like this song, do you?” Yo-Yoji asked, incredulous. “How can you stand it? And they ripped off your sock-monster!”
“Just listen for a second,” Cass said. “Doesn’t it remind you of something?”
Her friends concentrated. Mostly, it sounded like any other bad, bubblegum pop song. But when they listened closely they heard a familiar tune underneath — not nearly as eerie or beautiful as they remembered it, but unmistakable, nevertheless.
“It’s the song of the Sound Prism!” said Max- Ernest.
With growing horror, the kids listened to what the Skelton Sisters were singing:

C’mon! Come here now!
C’mon, cuz our time is here now!
C’mon! Can you hear it?
C’mon! Don’t fear it —
Just listen to the sound now,
And come on round now . . .
Cuz we’re calling,
We’re calling . . . YOU!

Yo-Yoji looked at the others: “It’s almost like they’re talking to . . .”
“. . . the homunculus,” Cass finished for him. “It’s a trap — to get him to come here.”
Max-Ernest was the first to jump into action. If you call nervously tapping your feet and wiping your brow action. “We have to stop the song — before he hears it!”
“Yeah, but how?” asked Cass.
“Like this —” said Yo-Yoji.
And, like that, he leaped onto the stage.
“Hey, Amber,” he shouted. “You still want me to be in a band with you? Give me that mic —” Before Amber realized what was happening, he grabbed her mic away from her.
Without thinking, Cass and Max-Ernest scrambled onto the stage after Yo-Yoji.
“Hey, we know them!” shrieked the startled Romi (or was it Montana), pointing at Cass and Max-Ernest.
“Yeah, they’re . . . them!” shrieked the startled Montana (or was it Romi?).
What was weird was that as they spoke, the song continued just as if they were still singing.
C’mon! Come here now!
C’mon, cuz our time is here now!
“I’ve got a better song, it’s called, ‘You Suck, You Lip-Synching Fakers!’” shouted Yo-Yoji into the mic so that the entire crowd could hear. “The Skelton Sisters suck! The Skelton Sisters suck!”
Cass and Max-Ernest picked up the chant. “They suck! They suck!”
“Get them!” yelled Romi (or was it Montana?).
The twelve sock♥roaches® stopped dancing and started to close in on Cass and Max-Ernest.
“Hey, Cass — look out there!” Max-Ernest pointed into the crowd.
A spotlight shone on the center aisle where a certain twenty-one-and-a-half-inch-tall creature was visible, walking toward the stage. He looked like another sock♥roach® — just smaller.
The audience cheered him on, straining their necks to look at this short but wonderful addition to the show.
“Noooo! Mr. Cabbage Face!” Cass screamed. “Go away! It’s a trap!!!”
But she had no microphone and her voice was drowned out by the music and the cheers of the crowd.
Cass’s screams had distracted their assailants long enough for Max-Ernest to slip out from the circle. Quickly, Cass pulled the Sound Prism out of her sweatshirt. Before she was grabbed by the nearest sock♥roach®, she rolled it in Max-Ernest’s direction and —
Fumbling, he caught it.
Yo-Yoji joined him and they jumped offstage —
Just as the grumpy homunculus was climbing up.
“You better have a good explanation for this,” he said to Cass, not yet realizing that her arms were pinned behind her back. “I don’t dance — let’s just get that clear.”
“I’m sorry, I didn’t, I mean, I couldn’t —” said Cass tearfully.
By the time the homunculus had any clue what she meant, two dancers had grabbed him from behind. And now he, too, was locked in the fuzzy but firm grip of a bright orange sock♥roach®.
“Unhand me, you oversize baby toy!” he snarled. “I’ve had bigger than you for lunch!”
Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji watched helplessly from the crowd as their twelve-year-old friend and the five-hundred-year-old homunculus were dragged back-stage. There were too many of the enemy to even contemplate a fight.
The sock♥roaches® dropped Cass and the homunculus to the floor in front of Ms. Mauvais like dogs presenting fresh kill to their master.
“Welcome to the greenroom. Make yourselves at home.”
Ms. Mauvais gestured grandly around the dingy backstage waiting room as if she were welcoming them to a palace, her gauzy gold gown rippling with every movement.
Palms sweating, pulse racing, Cass looked around for a way out; there was only one door, and there were no windows.
As if deliberately mocking her, Dr. L relaxed, feet up, on a long couch. A near life-size photo of a tropical beach was pasted to the wall behind him.
“Can I offer you something to eat from craft services?” Ms. Mauvais asked, indicating a long table piled high with all kinds of food.
The homunculus eyed a big standing rib roast with bones sticking up in a circle, making a crown. Meat juices puddled on the plate underneath.
“Yeah, I’ll take . . . some of that.” He pointed at the roast, his eyes glistening.
“The crown roast? It does look . . . bloody, doesn’t it? You can have the whole thing — if you tell us where Lord Pharaoh’s grave is.”
So that’s a crown roast, thought Cass. You’d really have to be a cannibal to find one of those appetizing!
With enormous effort, the homunculus tore his eyes away from the roast. “Never,” he said, practically trembling with hunger. “I’d rather starve.”
“Oh, what a noble little creature you are,” said Ms. Mauvais.
“Hardly,” sneered the homunculus. “But compared to you . . .”
“We have other means of convincing a person — or whatever you call yourself,” said Dr. L from the couch. He studied the homunculus with a scientific eye.
“Go ahead and try,” said the homunculus. “No torture can compare to what I endured from Lord Pharaoh when I was young. And death doesn’t scare me — at my age, it would be a relief! You should try it yourselves!”
“I’d really rather not,” said Ms. Mauvais. “In fact, you could say not dying is my life’s work.”
“We’re patient. And resourceful,” said Dr. L. “Let’s see — what means of persuasion do we have on hand?”
As his glance fell on Cass, the homunculus visibly stiffened.
“I think you just found it,” said Ms. Mauvais.
Dr. L smiled grimly. “I think I did.”
Don’t worry, nobody laid a hand on Cass — other than the electric blue sock♥roach® who was still gripping her arm. But Dr. L’s description of what he would do to her if the homunculus didn’t tell them where the gravesite was was so horrifying I shudder just to think about it.
And you know me — I’m as coldhearted as they come.
Imagine how Mr. Cabbage Face reacted.
I know the homunculus comes off as a gruff and surly sort of fellow. But remember his history: he’d been so ridiculed and abused as a child he couldn’t bear to see another child treated harshly.
Then there’s this: Cass was the heir of the Jester. When he looked at her ears (if not her face) he saw his old friend. His only friend. The one he would have sacrificed all for.
“All right,” he said, struggling with himself. “I’ll tell you. Just don’t touch the girl!”
Perhaps it would have been wiser to leave Cass to whatever tortures the Midnight Sun might have had in store — if their finding Lord Pharaoh’s grave was really going to be as disastrous as the homunculus predicted. But I confess I sympathize with him and like him better for his choice.
Dr. L nodded, as if the homunculus were merely confirming something he’d known already.
And Ms. Mauvais’s frozen face cracked just slightly into something like a smile.
“Good. Now, give me that key,” she said.
His large hand shaking, the homunculus removed the skeleton key from around his neck.
For the first time since he’d hung it there centuries ago.
A moment later, hidden in the crowd, Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest watched Cass and the homunculus being escorted out the gate, surrounded by a cluster of silver-clad bouncers.
“We have to follow them!” said Max-Ernest.
“Well, come on then,” said Yo-Yoji.
The two boys made it out of the stadium just in time to see Cass and the homunculus pushed into a waiting limousine. Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L climbed in after them and a bouncer slammed the door shut.
As the gleaming vehicle took off into the night, Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest ran after it. But it was no use — they’d never catch up.
They stood, panting, under the harsh lights of the huge parking lot.
“What do we do now?” asked Max-Ernest, miserable.
“I dunno. We don’t even know where they’re going.”
“Wait — I just remembered!” Max-Ernest pulled the Sound Prism out of his jacket pocket.
He motioned Yo-Yoji to his side then turned the Sound Prism around in his hand. Beyond the sounds of the concert behind them, they heard cars honking, a baby crying . . .
Then, faintly, in snippets, the sound of Cass speaking in the distance.
“I can’t believe . . . told . . . WHISPER LAKE! And now . . . to the GRAVEYARD!”
Walking around in circles as if he were trying to get a better cell-phone signal, Max-Ernest managed to focus on the voices in the limo.
“Shush, girl!” they could hear Ms. Mauvais say.
Cass spoke in an oddly clear voice, emphasizing certain words: “It’s too bad they won’t know to FIND PIETRO and tell him to MEET US THERE.”
“It’s almost like she’s trying to tell us to find him,” said Yo-Yoji.
Max-Ernest shook his head in amazement. “Only Cass could boss us around — even when she’s a mile away!”
“Yeah, well, she’s got a good teammate.”
“You mean you?”
“No, you, dude.”
“Oh.” Max-Ernest grinned, surprised. “So are you ready to go save Cass?”
“Definitely.”
Without having to confer out loud, they both started running in the direction of the nearest bus stop.

CHAPTER FOUR
Ending

No, not that kind. Although that would be bad enough.
I mean, the ending of life.
Which, come to think of it, is why I hate the ending of a book so much. Because it’s a kind of death.
There are two kinds of people in the world: those who like graveyards and those who don’t.
When I was younger, I loved graveyards. They weren’t spooky so much as mysterious. Each tombstone another story to uncover. Another life to learn about.
Now that I’m older — I won’t say how old — I hate graveyards. The only life — or rather death — I see in the tombstones is my own.
Believe me, if I didn’t have to end this book in a graveyard I wouldn’t. (OK, so I lied — it is that kind of ending. Or the beginning of the ending.)
Come to think of it, who says I have to end the book in a graveyard?
Just because that’s where Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais headed with Cass and the homunculus, just because that’s where a big climactic confrontation and dramatic resolution to the story I’ve been telling took place, who says I have to write about it?
Contrary to what some may believe, this is still my book — isn’t it?
If I want to, I could take things in a radically new direction.
Like this:
Just when Cass thought they were all headed for the graveyard, the limousine got caught in the tractor beam of an alien spaceship that sucked the limousine up into its belly. As luck would have it, the aliens were on a mission to find a survivalist to lead their disaster-prone planet. . . .
Or this:
Just when Cass thought they were all headed for the graveyard, Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L both suddenly fell into anaphylactic shock, thanks to a pill the homunculus dropped in their champagne. . . .
Or even this:
Just when Cass thought they were all headed for the graveyard, she blinked and woke up. She, Cassandra — a survivalist? She laughed. What a funny thing for a ballet dancer to dream about. . . .
No? None of those versions ring true? I’m betraying you, my reader, by taking off in these wild directions?
Well, I tried.
Your criticism is harsh but fair.
I’ll tell you what — you know how much I like deals — I will write the graveyard scene, if, and only if, you hold my hand through it.
You be the strong and courageous one, and I’ll provide the commentary. If you’re the kind of person who happily runs through graveyards laughing at death, so much the better.
Now: how to start our ending?
Normally, when a writer doesn’t know how to start, he might begin with a description of place. But I did that already — you read all about the graveyard and Whisper Lake in the camping chapters.
I have an idea: why don’t we show how the place has changed since we last saw it? How much time has passed. That sort of thing.
To make our job easier (and maybe a little less scary), let’s pretend we’re making a movie and imagine that Whisper Lake and the surrounding mountains are being filmed from high above in a helicopter — that’s called an aerial shot.
What we see from up here in the sky is that the entire mountain range has been blanketed in snow, and Whisper Lake has been frozen over. In fact, it is snowing now, very softly, giving our movie the look of slow motion.
Little specks of color move against the white background — people, we see they are, as the camera pushes in. They make tracks through the snow, all converging on the same point above the lake.
We watch as one by one these silent hikers salute each other. Strange — for a second, it looks as though they have no hands. . . .
Oh — I know why! It’s because they’re all wearing white gloves that don’t show up against the snow. . . .
From her earthbound vantage point, tied to a tree some twenty yards above the grave of Lord Pharaoh, Cass made the same observation.
Gloves.
She knew what they meant. She’d seen these same sinister people on a similar occasion at the Midnight Sun Spa. They were the acolytes of the Midnight Sun — and if they were gathering like this it could only be because something truly terrible was about to occur.
What was once Lord Pharaoh’s grave was now a large gaping hole, surrounded by frozen clods of mud.
A team of silver-clad men — bouncers from the concert — stood in the hole removing dirt and rubble so expertly and methodically that I have to believe they had dug up many graves before.
Around them, the Masters of the Midnight Sun — several still in sock♥roach® costumes — stood in a wide circle, chanting something deep and resonant like a yoga master’s Om, yet somehow much darker and more foreboding.
Impervious to the cold, Ms. Mauvais stood on the edge of the grave, her gauzy gold gown blowing in the wind. Snowflakes swirled around her.
Like a high priestess, she spoke to her congregation:
“A great man was buried here. No, a great being. Even a god. For he had the power to create life itself! Who knows what miracles Lord Pharaoh would have achieved had not his own creation turned against him? This miserable, ungrateful little creature here —”
She gave a dismissive kick to the homunculus who was lying in the snow beneath her, his hands and feet bound together with rope. “But now we will continue Lord Pharaoh’s work, and we will be gods ourselves!”
With excited cries, the gravediggers hoisted a large and cumbersome coffin out of the grave, and laid it on the snow.
An oozing, festering crust covered the entire casket save for a gleaming golden lock. The coffin seemed almost to be alive.
“Behold — in this coffin lies the Secret we have so long sought!”
“The Secret . . . the Secret . . . the Secret . . .” chanted the crowd.
“Doctor . . . ?” Ms. Mauvais looked expectantly at Dr. L.
He nodded and stepped forward, skeleton key in hand. The coffin’s golden lock beckoned.
“You don’t want to open that!” warned a gruff voice from the ground.
“You mean you don’t want us to open it,” scoffed Ms. Mauvais.
“Me? It’s nothing to me,” the homunculus responded. “This isn’t my time. This isn’t my place. I’m not one of you.”
“Are not Lord Pharaoh’s papers in there with him?” asked Dr. L.
“Among other things, yes.”
“And is not the Secret written there?”
“I don’t know anything about that,” said the homunculus, as if the Secret were the least of his concerns. “But I’m telling you, if you let out what’s in that coffin — then everything and everyone you see around you will die. And it won’t smell very good, either! I speak only out of concern for the girl, you understand —” He gestured awkwardly toward Cass, without looking at her. “And because I think the trees deserve to live.”
“Perhaps we should listen to him,” said Dr. L, turning to Ms. Mauvais. “His words have the ring of truth.”
“Are you mad?!” yelled Ms. Mauvais, sounding quite mad herself.
By now, snow had started to pile on top of Cass’s head and shoulders and feet; she looked as if she were one of the statues in the graveyard.
Cass had long ago memorized the symptoms of frostbite: discoloration of skin, tingling or burning feeling, numbness. But she’d never before experienced them.
Unfortunately, her extensive research on the subject did her no good now. How did it help to know that if her frostbite was left untreated her skin would gradually darken until it became black and began to loosen from her flesh? That her nerves would be damaged beyond repair? That she would probably fall prey to gangrene?
She liked to think she would be brave enough to face amputation if it were ever required, but there was little chance that even such a drastic treatment would be available here; Dr. L was much more likely to chop off her head than her leg.
How, why, had she let herself become their prisoner? It was like the boat all over again — with one big difference. On the boat, Max-Ernest had been imprisoned with her. Now, here in the mountains, she was alone.
Cold and alone.
She looked out into the empty, snowy world around her. The Midnight Sun had scared even the birds away. Where was Max-Ernest now?
I should never have given him the Sound Prism, she thought. It was my only tool, my only power. Why did I trust him with it? What made me think he’d be able to get here to save me?
Wasn’t a survivalist supposed to save herself? And here she was, waiting helpless, tied to a tree like Snow White!
And now, she thought, I’m going to die.
Tears trickled down Cass’s cheeks only to collect in an ugly icy crusty combination with the frozen snot beneath her nose.
As Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L fought over whether or not to open the coffin, the homunculus was dragged through the snow and dropped next to Cass.
He looked up at her, a small sad smile on his face.
“The Jester would have been proud of you,” he said.
“Why? Look at me! I’m crying.”
“Oh, I don’t think he would have cared about that. He saw me cry once and told me it made me human. Only a miserable pathetic human wretch would shed tears like that, he said.”
Cass laughed through her tears —
“Sorry about the crown roast,” she said after a moment. “I shouldn’t have lied.”
The homunculus snorted. “The Jester wasn’t exactly famous for his truthfulness, either.”
“Well, thanks for not holding it against me.” Cass sniffled, unable to wipe her nose.
“You know, I used to dream about you. I even dreamed this — sort of.” She nodded in the direction of the open grave. “Max-Ernest says that a dream is the fulfillment of a wish. I couldn’t figure out what my dreams were wishing for — they seemed so scary. But I think I know now.”
“I thought I told you — I don’t grant wishes,” the homunculus joked, wriggling closer.
“But you did — that’s the point.” Cass was so cold it was almost impossible to speak, but she had to get it out.
“I think my wish had to do with wanting to know who my father is. Even though I never totally admitted it. Because I didn’t want to have to miss him or whatever. Or maybe just because I didn’t want to hurt my mom’s feelings. It’s kind of hard to explain . . . but what you told me about the Jester, and his pointy ears and everything, it’s the only clue I’ve ever had. I mean, I know he couldn’t be my father — then I’d be as old as you, but he could be my father’s father’s father’s father’s father — or something like that. Right?”
The homunculus nodded. “Something like that.”
“Anyway, I think that’s why I dreamed about you. Although it still doesn’t make any sense, considering I never met you before. . . .”
“Very little in this world makes sense,” said the homunculus with uncharacteristic solemnity.
They fell silent as the wind picked up.
Then, suddenly, Cass:
“Hey, what’s that?”
“What’s what?”
Cass cocked her head, listening. “Sounds like — horses?”
“I can’t hear anything,” said the homunculus. “Then again, I don’t have your ears.”
“What do you mean, my ears?”
“It’s your gift, isn’t it? The Jester could hear all kinds of things. Too much, if you ask me. Even without the Sound Prism.”
As Cass contemplated this, they heard Dr. L’s voice ring out — so loud it echoed across Whisper Lake.
“Hello, my fellow Masters of the Midnight Sun — this is your leader, Luciano, Dr. L, speaking. There has been a change of plan. This is not Lord Pharaoh’s grave. It contains no Secret.”
Still standing by the coffin, Ms. Mauvais looked at Dr. L in outrage. “What are you doing?”
He whirled around, distressed. “But that wasn’t me! Pay no attention!” he shouted at the Midnight Sun members.
“Everyone must leave — now!” boomed the voice of this other, louder Dr. L.
The Midnight Sun members mumbled and grumbled in confusion. Those who couldn’t hear the real Dr. L beckoning them to stay began to disassemble.
“Who’s speaking? Who stole my voice?” Dr. L shouted. “Pietro, is that you?”
But his voice was drowned by the sound of galloping horses. As everyone turned in the direction of the horses, the sock♥roach® nearest the grave ripped his head off —
“Owen?!”
He waved at Cass as he shed the rest of his lime green costume. “I’ll come get you in a second!” he shouted in the seldom-used voice she’d come to recognize as his own.
Then he wrestled a yellow fellow sock♥roach® to the ground.
“Pietro, where are you?” cried Dr. L, still looking for his brother.
As if Dr. L had summoned him from the beyond, Pietro arrived out of the trees on horseback at the other side of the graveyard. In his hand was what looked from a distance like a large snowball.
“Everyone, go home!” he shouted into the snowball as if it were a megaphone.
Alongside Pietro, a lively and diverse (which is a polite way of saying rambunctious and ragtag) sort of cavalry rode into the graveyard. With cheers and cries of “Ballyhoo!” they attacked (which is polite way of saying created chaos among) their gloved adversaries.
On one horse (which, in this case, is a polite way of saying donkey) sat the two little people seen earlier on the bus, still in their formal attire. As soon as they entered the graveyard, they jumped off and started running under the legs of the silver-clad bouncers, tripping them and occasionally biting their ankles.
The Bearded Lady also jumped off her horse (which in this case is a polite way of saying elephant) and started swinging her fists at unsuspecting Midnight Sun members.
The Strong Man, meanwhile, marched in on foot, supporting (which is a polite way of saying wielding like human barbells) two Chinese platespinners — and knocking over enemies on all sides.
Standing on top of a horse (which, in this case, is a polite way of saying camel), the Illustrated Man breathed fire from his mouth, lighting torches that he juggled then threw at fleeing sock♥roaches®.
In a cart behind him, the red-coated Lion Tamer waved his bullwhip and bowed this way and that as if before a cheering crowd (which is a polite way of saying he was off his rocker).
Alone among this brave-ish band, there was one who truly followed the Way of the Warrior: that was, of course, the one and only Warrior Wei. Lily wore full body armor over her black gi and had her horse-head violin strapped to her back as if it were a sword (which in fact it was).
Like laser beams, her eyes locked on her old nemesis, Ms. Mauvais, who was standing slightly removed from the melee, a look of intense rage on her face.
Screaming a vengeful word I cannot repeat (not because it was obscene, but because it was utterly unrecognizable), Lily kicked her heels into the sides of her horse and charged —
Just before she could make contact, however, Ms. Mauvais signaled six of her gloved gravediggers with a flick of her gloved wrist, and they blocked Lily’s way, pulling her off her horse.
By the time Lily kicked, chopped, and swung her way through the line of silver-clad thugs, Ms. Mauvais had disappeared — but, undeterred, Lily plunged into battle with the rest of the Midnight Sun. Running behind the circus folk, looking winded but also exhilarated, were two much younger and comparatively uncolorful people: Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji.
Pietro stalled his horse next to them.
“Thanks for this —!” He tossed Max-Ernest the snowball which, of course, was actually the Sound Prism — and which Max-Ernest caught with two hands.
“Now, all we need is that —” said Max-Ernest. He pointed to the senile Lion Tamer, still standing on his horse, bowing to an imaginary crowd. “Hey, mister — can we borrow your whip?” he shouted.
Yo-Yoji looked at Max-Ernest in surprise: what the heck did he want a whip for?
Pietro urged his horse forward, then jumped off when he neared the grave. In the commotion, Lord Pharaoh’s coffin had been left unguarded.
“Pietro?!”
It was his brother.
Suddenly, they were face-to-face. And almost nose-to-nose. They were so close — so quickly and unexpectedly — that they each stepped backward as if frightened by a ghost.
Although Pietro’s face had aged so much more than Dr. L’s, their movements remained identical, and watching the two of them together was like watching one person standing in front of a mirror. (Or maybe like watching two people playing mirror in a drama class.)
“Nice trick with the voice,” said Dr. L, recovering. “I don’t remember that one.”
“I guess I’ve learned one or two since the Bergamo Brothers last performed.”
Dr. L smiled wanly. “You look . . . old, brother.”
“And so I am. So we are. Luciano, come home with me. It is not too late. You are not this . . . thing.”
He gestured to Dr. L’s handsome but lifeless face, his slick clothes, his telltale gloves.
“I don’t believe it. I won’t believe it.”
Dr. L blinked — for a moment he seemed almost to waver. To regret what he’d become. To agree to repent.
“You always thought you knew better than me, didn’t you?” he asked with a sneer.
“I do know better,” said Pietro.
They stared at each other — their old love for each other vying with their newfound hatred.
“Kill him!” Ms. Mauvais screamed, striding toward them.
Dr. L raised his gloved hand. He held the skeleton key like a weapon.
“Good-bye, fratello mio,” Pietro said sadly. “Do you remember this one . . . ?”
He reached down and grabbed a fistful of snow. “We used to use smoke —”
Before his brother had time to react, Pietro threw the powdery snow into his brother’s eyes, creating a sparkly cloud. He remounted his horse and escaped into the fracas.
A moment later, Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji climbed up onto the boulder overlooking the lake, the boulder on which they’d stood when Cass first called the homunculus a few long weeks ago.
Below in the graveyard, chaos reigned.
“Are you sure this is going to work?” asked Yo-Yoji. He held the lion-tamer’s whip in his hand, and he flicked it nervously.
“Define sure,” said Max-Ernest, holding the Sound Prism so tight his knuckles were white. “Am I absolutely positive? No. Am I reasonably certain? . . . Uh, no. Do I think there is a good chance of success? Depends what you mean by good. Do I think it will work? Um, I hope it will. Does part of me think the plan is insane? Uh, yeah. Is it the kind of thing I would usually do —?”
“OK, I get the point!”
“Anyway, it’s a fact that a whip creates a sonic boom — I’ve read about it. It’s because when you crack it, it moves faster than the speed of sound.”
Yo-Yoji eyed the whip in his hand, as if wondering how it could possibly move that fast.
“Plus,” said Max-Ernest, standing a little taller, “it’s the only way to save Cass. Well, the only way I can think of. Do you have a better idea?”
Yo-Yoji gave the whip an experimental crack. Max-Ernest jumped back, startled.
“OK, you’re the boss,” said Yo-Yoji. He made a fist and looked meaningfully at Max-Ernest.
“Paper scissors rock?” asked his confused friend.
Yo-Yoji laughed. “No, like this —”
And he showed Max-Ernest how to bump fists.
It was strange for Cass, being on the sidelines of the battle waging in front of her in the graveyard. (Owen, it seems, was still too busy fighting sock♥roaches® to untie her.) In her fantasies at least, she was always the hero in these situations, not the damsel in distress.
Still, she was glad there were heroes around — even if they weren’t her. She’d barely caught a glimpse of her two friends, but it had been enough.
True, the Midnight Sun had numbers on their side. Not to mention just about every other advantage you could think of. But just knowing Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji were there — and that they’d called Pietro just as she’d planned — made her feel hopeful.
She wasn’t alone, she realized. She had a friend. In fact, she had two. And more if you counted Pietro and Owen and Lily. She looked down at her feet: and the homunculus. How many friends could a person have? Perhaps there was no limit. She made a mental note to discuss the subject one day with Max-Ernest.
She thought again of the last time she’d been tied up — on the Midnight Sun boat. She hadn’t yet tried to reenact Max-Ernest’s worm wriggle, because she’d been under constant guard. But now, she realized, nobody was looking at her.
Even the homunculus, still tied up in the snow beside her, was absorbed in the scene in front of him, as though it were a movie.
She tested the rope for slack; sure enough, they used too much rope again. Then she kicked her shoes off — the first step — and, wincing, stood in her socks in the snow. Now she’d get frostbite for sure.
Imagining a future life without toes, she shimmied herself out of the rope. Sooner than she expected, she was tying her shoes back on, and untying the surprised homunculus.
“Nice job, Jester junior.”
“Anytime.”
As she spoke, her voice was lost in the —
BOOM!!!
It sounded like a crack of thunder — followed by the loudest rumbling Cass had ever heard, indeed, the loudest rumbling the homunculus had ever heard, and he’d been hearing rumbling for five hundred years (though mostly in his own stomach).
“Look — it’s working!” said Yo-Yoji.
He and Max-Ernest watched as rocks started to shake loose from the peaks above.
“Yeah, but they’re not going in the right direction.”
“Maybe we should trying aiming for that? That’ll come right down on them,” said Yo-Yoji, pointing to a tall mountain peak that seemed to rise directly out of the graveyard. The snow on the peak was piled so high it created a lip —
“You mean that cornice? I don’t know how to aim for it exactly,” said Max-Ernest, looking from the Sound Prism to the mountain peak. “I was just figuring if I created a big enough sonic boom, the whole thing would avalanche.”
“Well, let’s try again — but don’t close your eyes this time.”
“OK — but it’s hard not to; it’s a reflex.”
Bravely keeping his eyes open, Max-Ernest held the Sound Prism as far out in front of himself as he could.
With an unusual intensity of focus, Yo-Yoji flicked the whip backward, then — crrrrracked it less than an inch away from the Sound Prism.
BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!!!!!!!
It was even louder this time. The mountains shook. A big crack zigzagged through the frozen surface of Whisper Lake.
Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji stared in amazement, at first not noticing that the boulder they were standing on had dislodged from the mountainside and started to ROLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL —
Cass heard the boulder before she saw it.
She had only a hazy hunch that the sonic booms had been created by Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji, and only the very haziest of hunches that the purpose of the booms was to bury Lord Pharaoh’s coffin for good.
Nonetheless, she snapped into action as though the plan had been her own.
“C’mon,” she said to the homunculus, pointing to the coffin as the boulder hurdled toward Lord Pharaoh’s grave, gaining speed every second.
(Thankfully, Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji had managed to jump off.)
While the Midnight Sun and Terces members alike scattered this way and that, running away from the boulder’s path, Cass and the homunculus sprinted to the coffin.
Together, they pushed the coffin (it was still on wheels) back to the grave, and heaved it over the edge into the hole.
“Cass!” warned the homunculus.
The boulder had bounded off another rock, sailed through the air, and was now rolling directly at them like a giant bowling ball.
With superhuman effort, the little homunculus rammed into Cass, pushing her out of the way just in time. But as he did so, he lost his footing and —
“Mr. Cabbage Face!!!”
— fell backward into the hole.
The boulder crashed on top of him.
Sealing the homunculus — and Lord Pharaoh’s deadly coffin — in the grave forever.

CHAPTER THREE
The OATH of the Terces

As the last remaining members of the Midnight Sun retreated into the snowy wilderness, a black helicopter rose out of the trees and flew off into the dawn sky — like a creature of the night fleeing the encroaching day.
Were we to have looked into the helicopter’s cabin, we would likely have found Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais sitting in stony silence, or furiously plotting their revenge, or both.
Rather humiliating to be defeated by three children, a defunct circus, and a tiny man grown in horse dung — don’t you think?
But let us stay on the ground this time, and watch the motley assortment of people known as the Terces Society gathering around Lord Pharaoh’s grave — now marked by a giant boulder sunk halfway into the earth.
The scene looked something like it did when the Midnight Sun had gathered earlier. But the differences were telling.
And not only because the sun — the real sun — had started to rise.
For one thing, the Terces Society members smiled. Not in the greedy, sinister, conniving way in which the Masters of the Midnight Sun occasionally smiled, but in an easier, friendlier, if still mischievous and not altogether innocent way.
For another thing, their attention was not trained on the grave and the terrible Secret it might contain but on the three kids in their midst.
I don’t know whether it was due to Terces Society custom, or rather, as I suspect, to Pietro’s intuitive understanding of the kind of ceremony they wanted, but the three kids were kneeling almost as if they were being knighted. Pietro standing above them like a proud father.
Cass and Max-Ernest were taking the Oath of Terces at last. And with them their new friend and partner, Yo-Yoji.
As Pietro recited the words, they repeated them:

I HAVE A SECRET I CAN’T TELL NOR INK;
THOUGH IT HAS NO SCENT, IT DOES OFTEN STINK.
THOUGH IT MAKES NO SOUND, IT CAN MAKE YOU ROAR;
WHEN IT’S TASTELESS, I LIKE IT ALL THE MORE.
THOUGH IT HAS NO SHADE, IT LACKS NOT COLOR;
THOUGH IT HAS NO SHAPE, NO CAUSE FOR DOLOR.
IF YOU THINK YOU KNOW IT, YOU’RE INCORRECT,
AND FROM YOU THE SECRET I WILL PROTECT.
THE SECRET OF LIFE IS NOT STONE NOR CENTS,
FOR THE SECRET SENSE IS BUT A NONSENSE.

“I thought it was supposed to be an oath,” said Yo Yoji, confused, as the three friends stood up. “That sounded more like another riddle.”
“Well, I liked it,” said Cass, her face still red from crying. “Are we allowed to know where it’s from?” She wiped her nose and looked at the grown-ups standing behind them.
“The Jester, of course,” said Mr. Wallace, pulling up the collar of his coat. “Everything he wrote is a bit of a puzzle.”
Owen patted Mr. Wallace on the back. “And if you had it your way, we’d spend all our time sitting in some library solving them.”
“Yeah, but what’s weird is, the way it goes, if you think you know the Secret, you’re wrong,” said Max-Ernest. “So how’re you supposed to figure it out then? It’s almost like you’re not supposed to solve the riddle. How ’bout that?”
“How ’bout that?” Pietro smiled at Max-Ernest “I think you have come pretty close to solving it just now.”
“Perhaps Cass is not the only one who has something in common with the Jester,” said Lily with a laugh.*
Later, as they all started heading down the mountain, Cass stopped and turned back to look at the enormous ball of granite sticking out from the glistening snow. There was something very fitting, she thought, about such a little creature getting such a big tombstone.
“Good-bye, Mr. Cabbage Face,” she said softly.
Her eyes beginning to tear again, she pulled that much smaller ball, the Sound Prism, out of her jacket pocket, and tossed it into the air one last time.

CHAPTER TWO
The Foundling
HANDLE WITH CARE FRAGILE!

I’m sure I don’t have to tell you how hysterical Cass’s mother became when Cass didn’t come home after the Skelton Sisters concert. This time around she didn’t bend and it would be months before Cass could step foot out of her house again without an accompanying adult.
You try telling your mother you’ll be home by eleven p.m. — then get kidnapped by evil alchemists, save the world with the help of a broken-down circus, have your life saved by a five-hundred-year-old homunculus, swear an oath you’ll keep this all secret from everyone including your mother, and then show up the following day with no explanation what-soever.
Cass was no longer allowed even to take the school bus. She had to be driven back and forth to school by her mother or her grandfathers.
Or — as happened one day a few weeks after the incident at Whisper Lake — by her mother and her grandfathers.
That afternoon, Cass’s mother was waiting on the curb in front of Cass’s school with Grandpa Larry and Grandpa Wayne; it was Grandpa Larry’s birthday and they were all going to an antiques auction to celebrate.
As she stepped outside, Cass heard them speaking — even though they were about half a block away:
“You know, it’s our story, too — not just yours,” Grandpa Larry was saying. “Maybe we should tell her if you won’t.”
“No, no. I will. Very soon. I promise,” said Cass’s mother. “I just need to find the right —”
“But there’s never going to be a right time!” said Cass’s grandfathers in unison.
Reflexively, Cass felt in her pocket for the Sound Prism. But she wasn’t carrying it. She was hearing them with her own ears.
Could the homunculus have been right?
One thing was certain: whatever their powers, her ears were unique, and they were her inheritance from the Jester.
And something else: it was time.
Right now.
Right here in front of her school.
Before she could change her mind, Cass marched up to her startled mother and grandfathers, and took a big breath —
“I know why you didn’t want to say who my father was.”
Another breath.
“It’s because you don’t really know.”
Breath.
“Because I was adopted, and you were afraid to tell me.”
Breath.
“But it’s OK, I still love you.”
Breath.
“And you’re still my mom.”
Breath.
“So don’t worry.”
Big breath.
“But how —?” asked her mother, beginning to cry.
“Somebody sent me this — I can’t really explain why.”
Suddenly teary herself, Cass showed her mom the piece of paper that she’d found on the ground in the Barbie Graveyard. The birth certificate that had been in the Sound Prism file.
She couldn’t pinpoint the exact moment when she’d realized that she was the girl whose name was on the birth certificate. It could have been when the homunculus told her she was the heir of the Jester. Or it might have been one of those sleepless nights after they’d lost the homunculus, when Cass thought she’d lost her chance to be part of the Terces Society as well.
But she’d been carrying the birth certificate around with her ever since she’d found it — as if she’d known what it meant all along.
“Oh, Cass, I love you so much,” said her mother, hugging her tight.
“Me, too,” said Cass, hugging back.
“Us, too,” said her beaming grandfathers, closing in for a group hug.
Cass was a foundling.
As Grandpa Larry and Grandpa Wayne would tell her later that evening, and many more times after that, one night twelve years before, Cass’s mother happened to be having tea with them.
She was in tears — she had no husband or boyfriend in sight, and, she told them, she was afraid she would never have a child.
While Larry and Wayne tried to cheer her up, Sebastian started barking down below. A customer, they wondered, at this hour?
By the time they got downstairs, whoever had been there was gone. But a box had been left on their doorstep — just as so many other boxes had been left on their doorstep over the years. (Everyone knew Larry and Wayne could never bear to throw anything away.)
The box was taped up, just as if it contained old magazines or a mismatched set of plates, and it said nothing but the words “Handle With Care.” A single hole had been poked through the cardboard to let air inside.
When they opened the box, they found a tiny baby wrapped in a blanket. There was no note, only a meticulously written label: “Baby girl. 7 lbs. 3 oz. Time of birth 6:35 p.m.”
But Cass’s mother hadn’t needed to read a label to know the baby was hers.
Likewise, Cass hadn’t needed to hear the story twelve years later to know who her mother was meant to be.
Then again, hearing a good story never hurts. Especially when it’s about you.

CHAPTER ONE
The Talents Show

Months later . . .
Cass was in the audience.
Let me repeat that. Because she was very emphatic about it.
Cass was in the audience.
As in — not onstage.
As in — she wouldn’t be in a talent show if her life depended on it.
As in — yeah, sure, she, Cassandra, was a dedicated survivalist and she was ready to face all the disasters in the world, natural or supernatural, but she would never, as in not ever, face — her — peers — from — up — there!
Their school’s annual talent show had recently been renamed The Talents Show because, as Mrs. Johnson had explained, people had many kinds of talents (“That’s talents with an s, children — plural!”) and no one talent was superior to any other.
The students, of course, knew better. They knew that some talents were always superior to others — the talents that happened, coincidentally, to belong to the most popular students — and to show their disdain for the talent show’s new name, they mockingly called it the “Talents With an S Show.”
Cass had been a little disappointed that Yo-Yoji was refusing to perform in the talent show; if anybody had the power to shake up the school hierarchy with a little guitar playing he did. But her disappointment about Yo-Yoji not performing couldn’t match the anxiety she felt about the fact that Max-Ernest was performing.
After a ten-year-old boy named Lucas delivered a surprisingly strong rendition of Tom Jones’s swinging song “It’s Not Unusual,” Mrs. Johnson called Max-Ernest’s name.
Twice.
When nobody appeared on stage, Cass, sitting discreetly near the back of the auditorium, was almost relieved. Maybe he was backing out after all.
“Max-Ernest, if you don’t come out now, you’re going to lose your turn!” Mrs. Johnson bellowed as only a principal can.
“But I can’t get my hat to stay on!”
Suddenly, as if someone had pulled him out of the wings with a cane, Max-Ernest stumbled onto the stage, holding a top hat on his head with one hand, and holding a wand with the other. He wore a magician’s cape that was about five sizes too big for him.
“Hi. I’m . . . I’m Max-Ernest,” he stammered. “Most of you know me already because you go to school with me. But some of you are parents, so you don’t go to school — well, that’s not exactly true, but — Anyway, um, like I was saying, I’m Max-Ernest, but today I am Max-Ernest the Magnificent and I’m going to do a magi-comedy act — that’s comedy, plus magic —”
“Get on with it, Max-Ernest — and use the microphone!” said Mrs. Johnson, not very gently.
Cass groaned: it was even worse than she’d feared.
“OK. OK. I was just about to tell a joke. Here it is — Knock, knock! Now somebody say — ‘Who’s there?’”
“Who’s there?” shouted a man in the corner.
“Who’s there?” shouted a woman in the opposite corner.
“I am! Get it?” Max-Ernest looked out at the audience expectantly.
“Ha-ha! I am — I get it!” shouted the man.
“I am — that’s really funny!” shouted the woman.
Cass didn’t have to look to know who they were: Max-Ernest’s parents.
Nobody else laughed.
Just then, Yo-Yoji ran onto the stage from the wings, his guitar around his neck. “Say I am again!”
“Um, I am,” said Max-Ernest, surprised.
Yo-Yoji plucked his guitar, making that sound you hear on television after somebody makes a joke: wah wahhh.
This time, everybody laughed.
Slunk down in her seat, Cass smiled gratefully. Thank you, Yo-Yoji.
“OK, now for some magic,” said Max-Ernest, gaining confidence. “I need somebody who’s really beautiful and really really nice to volunteer. Amber?”
Everybody craned their necks to look at Amber, sitting in the front row. She looked at Max-Ernest, startled.
Next to her, Veronica applauded loudly. “Go, Amber!”
She stood up, feigning modesty. “Well, I don’t know, but if he really wants me to . . .”
As Amber stepped onto the stage, swinging her hair, Max-Ernest gestured behind him where the Gateway to the Invisible stood in a spotlight, on loan from the Magic Museum.
“Look at this booth here — looks totally normal, right, Amber?”
“Right, Max-Ernest,” she said, smiling at the audience to show she was taking this very seriously.
“But actually, it’s the door to another dimension — the Invisible!” said Max-Ernest dramatically. Or almost dramatically. “OK, now close the curtain behind me after I step inside —”
She did.
“Knock, knock,” he said loudly from inside.
“Who’s there?” replied Amber, playing along.
“Nobody!” declared Max-Ernest. “Now open the curtain.”
As Amber opened the curtain, Yo-Yoji played some spooky, build-up-the-tension-type guitar chords.
The booth was empty.
The audience gasped. Then burst into applause.
Not bad, Cass thought. Maybe he won’t be such a disaster after all.
“Now, close the curtain,” said the voice of the missing Max-Ernest.
As soon as Amber had closed the curtain, Max-Ernest pulled it open again and stepped out.
He smiled. “How ’bout that?”
More applause. Victorious guitar chords.
“Now, how would you like to disappear, Amber?”
She smiled nervously. “Uh. OK, I guess.”
Max-Ernest held up his bandanna. “First, you have to put on this blindfold. Looking straight at the Invisible can be very scary and disorienting for somebody who’s never experienced it before. Whatever you do, don’t take the bandanna off!”
Obviously reluctant, but afraid to show it, Amber allowed him to tie the bandanna around her eyes and escort her into the booth.
But when the curtain closed behind her, the audience heard Amber cry in protest, “Hey — what’s happening?! Help —!”
“Relax, Amber — you are now invisible!”
While Yo-Yoji strummed his guitar repeatedly — almost like a drumbeat — Max-Ernest opened the curtain with a flourish. She was gone.
“How ’bout that?”
More victory music. More applause. Most of it from Cass, who couldn’t stop smiling: if only Amber would disappear forever!
“And now . . .” As Yo-Yoji strummed, Max-Ernest once again closed and reopened the curtain.
But this time the booth was still empty!
The audience tittered nervously. Yo-Yoji stopped playing and looked confusedly back and forth between the booth and Max-Ernest.
“Huh,” said Max-Ernest, scratching his head. “I guess the magic was a little too strong. . . .”
He closed and opened the curtain again. Still empty.
Everyone squirmed in their seats, uncertain what was happening.
“Sorry, Mrs. Johnson, this has never happened before,” said Max-Ernest, making a big show of his confusion. “I think we lost her.”
Mrs. Johnson looked outraged. “Well, you better find her!”
Suddenly, the loudspeaker crackled. “TRY THE PARKING LOT!” boomed a spooky voice with a hint of an Italian accent.
It was a stampede. Led by Cass.
When they got outside, people pointed, giggling: Amber was stumbling around the parking lot, blindfolded, her hands out in front of her.
“Where am I?? Somebody help me!!!”
Of the whole school, only Mrs. Johnson was not amused. Everybody else cheered for Max-Ernest. Even Amber’s friends.
How did he do it? they asked over and over, impressed and amazed.
Cass had an inkling of the answer when she saw Pietro walking quickly out of the parking lot. He waved at her, then disappeared into the distance.
Cass waved back, grinning from big pointy ear to big pointy ear.
Who said being a member of a dangerous secret society didn’t have its benefits?

This Book Is Not Good for You 
Chef DE CUISINE Pseudonymous Bosch

A recipe for disaster!

FOR INDIA AND NATALIA
WHEN THEY’RE OLD ENOUGH

ENOUGHDO NOT DISTURB
Mmmmm… … good snap… melts a hint of blackberry… mmm… yes… strong is it cardamom? velvety mouth-feel… finish… mmm…
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
mmmmm… smoothly on the tongue… yet earthy underneath… note of… cinnamon and—or maybe licorice?… not too sweet… lovely must have another…
AAAAAAAAAAAAK…!

Oh. It’s you.
Thank Goodness.
For a second, I thought it was—well, never mind what I thought.
The question is: what am I going to do with you?
You see, I’m—nbot quhgbite rlaaeady—
Sorry, my mouth was full. What I was trying to say was: I’m not quite ready for you. I’m very busy. Didn’t you see the DO NOT DISTURB sign?
What am I doing? Something important. That’s what.
Well, if you must know, I’m eating chocolate. But it’s not like it sounds! Trust me. It’s work. Research.
This book is all about chocolate. And—ykuh wounbrldbnt wrannt—sorry, I couldn’t resist another bite—you wouldn’t want me to write about something I didn’t know about, would you?
What’s that? You wouldn’t expect anything else from me?
Great. Thanks for the vote of confidence.
Let me tell you something: I’m not the same scared writer I used to be, and I’m not going to take any guff from you. I have other readers now. Grateful readers. Readers who know how to treat an author.
Take this extra-large box of extra-dark, extra-expensive, extra-delicious chocolates that I’m eating right now. Not to toot my own horn but a fan sent it to me as a present.
For P.B.—the best writer in the world, said the note.
What? It must be a trick? Nobody would say that about me and mean it?
OK, out—now! There’s no way I’m going to write this book with you sitting there insulting me.
I’ll tell you what: on my desk, there’s a chapter I just finished. It’s supposed to come much later in the book, but you might as well read it now while I continue… researching.
It will be like a prologue, an amuse-bouche, if you will—something to tickle your palate before the real meal arrives. *
Speaking of meals, which chocolate shall I have next? The caramel nougat or the raspberry ganache…?
Eeny meeny miny moe…

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
An Amuse Bouche

A bird poked his head through the iron bars and nudged the arm of the girl on the other side. The bird was bright green with a red chest, yellow crest, and big, begging eyes.
?Patience, my friend!? said the girl. ?My gosh, you are a greedy bird!?
(In reality, she was speaking French and what she said was: ?Patience, mon ami! Zut alors, tu es un oiseau avide!? But the French version is a little less polite.)
Laughing, the girl opened her hand and revealed a small broken piece of chocolate?the same color as her delicate skin.
The bird swallowed it whole, then looked at her beseechingly.
?Sorry, that?s all I could get today.?
The bird squawked?whether in thanks or in protest, it was hard to tell?and then flew away, his long tail waving in the wind.
?You should be bringing me food. I?m the one in the birdcage!? the girl called after him as he disappeared into the dense jungle.
Glum, she sat down on the pile of old newspapers that served as her bed?and as the only source of entertainment in her cement cell. The bird was a pest but his visits were the highlight of her day. There was nothing to look forward to now.
?Look alive, Simone!?
One of the guards, the large humorless woman named Daisy, stepped up to her cage. ?They want you again.?
Already? Simone wondered. It had only been an hour since the last time.
They were waiting for her in the Tasting Room.
The three of them, as always, sitting in those tall silver chairs behind that long marble table. In their bright white lab coats. And bright white gloves.
They?d never introduced themselves, but she had names for them: The tan man with the silver hair, she called him the Doctor. The beautiful blond woman with the frozen smile, she was the Barbie Doll. And the blind man behind the dark sunglasses, he was the Pirate.
They were like a tribunal. Like judges.
Only, weirdly, it was her judgment they were waiting for.
She sat down opposite them on the low stone bench. The one that made her feel about two feet tall.
Always the same routine. First, they made her drink a glass of water. Twice distilled water without any trace minerals, they?d explained. Absolutely tasteless. To cleanse her palate.
Then the Pirate placed in front of her a small square of chocolate on a plain white plate.
A Palet d?Or, he called it. A pillow of gold. *
And then they waited in silence for her response.
They said she was a supertaster. Somebody with double the usual number of taste buds in her tongue. But she knew it was more than that. **
For as long as she remembered she?d been able to detect subtle differences in flavors.
Was the honey made from orange blossoms or clover? Clover. Blackberry or boysenberry? Gooseberry. Was that lemon thyme or lemon verbena? Neither, it was lemongrass.
She was like one of those virtuosos who can play an entire symphony by ear the first time they sit at a piano. She had the taste equivalent of perfect pitch.
Now, in this cold room so far from home, she looked down at the Palet d?Or. It was dark to the point of blackness, and it had a silky sheen.
Carefully, she nibbled off a corner. And closed her eyes.
For weeks they?d been making her try darker and darker pieces. Some so chocolaty and dense they were like dirt. Some so intensely flavorful they were like a jolt.
But this was something else altogether. It was like ultra chocolate. The quintessence of chocolate.
It was the best thing she?d ever tasted.
And the worst.
Tears streamed down her face as she experienced a lifetime of emotions all at once.
The taste of the chocolate?the tastes, that is, because the chocolate tasted of so many things?took her back to her childhood. To her family?s old cacao farm in the rainforest.
In flashes, she remembered the gnarled roots of the cacao trees and the damp, fragrant earth.?
She remembered the flowers? those little pink flowers that bloomed year-round? not on branches? but right on the trunks of the cacao trees? as if each tree had come down with a case of flowery measles?
And she remembered the pods? red and yellow? like fiery sunsets? they looked as if they might contain alien spores or perhaps hives of evil fairies? but inside was the sweet sticky pulp that she loved to squish and squeeze between her hands?
And the seeds? she couldn?t believe people made something as wonderful as chocolate from those sour little seeds? but soon she could identify any variety at a glance? the fragile Criollos? the purple Forasteros? *
How happy she?d felt on the farm?! How safe?!
And then came that terrible day? the arrival of the three glamorous strangers? asking how she knew so much about chocolate? praising her tasting powers? promising a better future?
And then the crying as she was taken from her parents?
The gradual realization that she was a prisoner?
That her life was not her own?
?It?s working!? exulted the Barbie Doll. ?Look at her face!?
?She does seem to be? reacting,? said the Doctor more cautiously. ?Simone, can you tell us what you are tasting? What you are seeing??
?Yes, tell us!? urged the Pirate, clenching his gloved fist. ?Have I found my recipe at last? Is this my chocolate??
Simone opened her mouth to respond but?
Suddenly, she couldn?t see. She couldn?t hear. She couldn?t even feel her arm.
All her senses were gone.
She tried to scream but she made no sound.
What was happening to her?
What awful thing had she just eaten?

PART ONE APPETIZERS
CHAPTER ONE BOXES

Ka-chew!?
Max-Ernest sneezed so violently his spiky hair quivered for a full five seconds after he was done.
?Hey, did you notice?did I blink??
He looked down at his friend Cassandra, who was crouched next to him, her pointy ears sticking out above her long braids.
?I read that every time you sneeze, you blink. So I always try to see if I can keep my eyes open.?
?Sorry, wasn?t looking?,? Cass muttered.
She had long ago learned to ignore half of what Max-Ernest said. A necessary survival skill if you were going to be best friends with the most talkative boy in town.
?Now what do soup mix and pest control have to do with each other???
She was trying to read words scrawled on a cardboard box, but most had been crossed out:

PLUMBING EQUIPMENT
TEDDY BEARS AND TOY MICE
Catchers mitt and opera glasses
Dried flowers, flies for fly fishing, dried flies (real)
PARKING TICKETS
Canned tuna/ soup mix/ pest control

?Uh-oh, I think I have to?ka-chew!? Max-Ernest sneezed again. ?It?s the dust mites, I?m allergic??
Cass pushed the box aside?it wasn?t the one she was looking for?and stood up. Suddenly, she was a good half foot taller than her companion.
?Oh right, how could I forget a single one of your hundred allergies??
?What do you mean? There?s only sixty-three?that I know of,? Max-Ernest corrected, not picking up on her sarcasm. ?Let?s see, there?s wheat, walnuts, peanuts, pecans, strawberries, shellfish? oh, and chocolate, of course!?
?C?mon,? said Cass, moving on to a box behind the one she?d just been looking at. ?Are you going to help me find this thing or what??
It was summertime and Cass was working afternoons at her grandfathers? antiques store:

THE FIRE SALE
EVERYTHING YOU EVER NEVER WANTED!

as it was identified on the front door.
As readers of certain unmentionable books will recall, the store was housed on the bottom floor of an old redbrick fire station. Cass?s grandfathers, Larry and Wayne, lived upstairs, and every day they crammed their store with more and more stuff. Last year, Cass remembered, the store had already seemed like a maze, but at least there?d been enough space to walk between the shelves. Now you had to climb over piles of junk just to get from one part of the room to another.
Cass had told her mother that she was working at the Fire Sale to save money for a new bicycle, but that wasn?t exactly true. It wasn?t her only reason for working anyway.
In fact, she had an ulterior motive.
She was looking for a box. A special box she knew to be somewhere in her grandfathers? store. And considering there were at least a thousand boxes in the store, not to mention all the things that were unboxed, she figured she would need all summer to find the one she was looking for.
Today, her grandfathers had taken their dog, Sebastian, to the vet, and Cass was taking advantage of the time to redouble her search. Max-Ernest had graciously agreed to assist.
Or more precisely, had reluctantly agreed to keep her company.
He was used to his survivalist friend?s quixotic quests, whether she was searching for toxic waste under the school yard or killer mold under the cafeteria sink.* But this particular search, he felt, was particularly hopeless.
?What makes you think the box is still here?? he asked, not moving from his perch on top of a pile of old encyclopedias.
?You know my grandfathers?they never throw anything away.? She closed up the next box and moved on to another.
Max-Ernest looked around the store and shook his head. ?I think they have an obsessive-compulsive disorder. It?s clinical.?
Cass bristled. She loved her grandfathers and couldn?t stand anyone criticizing them?except possibly herself. ?Does everybody have to have a condition? Can?t they just like stuff??
?So why can?t you just ask them where it is??
?Are you crazy? They?d tell my mom for sure.?
?But we don?t even know what it looks like. This whole thing doesn?t make any sense??
?I know it says, ?Handle With Care.? And there?s a hole cut in the cardboard.?
?Like if you were carrying a cat??
?Max-Ernest!?
?OK, OK.?
Max-Ernest wasn?t very good at feelings, whether his own or anybody else?s. But he noticed that Cass?s ears?always a reliable emotional thermometer?were turning bright red.
The box was obviously a sensitive subject.
Indeed, it had been less than six months since Cass had discovered her mother?s secret:
That her mother had not given birth to her.
That she was adopted.
That she was a ?foundling,? as her grandfathers put it.
That Cassandra wasn?t even her real name.*
The story went like this:

SPECIAL DELIVERY
The Arrival of Baby Cassandra

A not-so-long-ish time ago in a place not-so-farish away, there lived two not-so-very-old-ish men.
These two men loved collecting things so much that their home filled to the brim with odds and ends and this and that and a lot of bric-a-brac, too.
Knowing the men?s acquisitive habits, the neighboring townsfolk were always leaving boxes on their doorstep. Their home was the home of last resort.
Usually, the boxes contained broken musical instruments or mismatched china or outgrown clothing.
Objects. Things. Stuff.
One fateful day, however, the men opened a box on their doorstep and discovered something altogether different. Instead of baby clothing, they found a baby.
An actual. Living. Breathing. Baby.
The men didn?t know what to do. Of course, of all things in the world, a baby is the one thing most people would want to keep. But as tenderhearted as these men were, they knew that their home was a difficult and dangerous place to raise a child. There were far too many things to pull and poke and break and burn and rip and ruin.
Luckily, a friend was visiting at the time. This friend, a very smart and successful but also very lonely woman, had just been telling them how very, very much she wanted a baby of her own. They decided that the baby was meant to be hers.
The friend was Mel, short for Melanie, the woman who would become Cass?s mother. That same day, the two men, a certain Larry and a certain Wayne, declared themselves Cass?s grandfathers.
And they all lived happily ever after.
Almost.
When Cass first learned the truth about her origins, she?d been inclined to forgive her mother for not telling her sooner. She knew her mother hadn?t wanted even the littlest thing to come between them. And the fact that Cass was adopted was a pretty big thing.
But as the weeks wore on, instead of softening, Cass?s feelings had grown increasingly hard. For most of her life, as the child of a single mom, Cass had wondered who her father was. Now she had to wonder who her mother was as well?
The worst part was that her mother didn?t seem to have any sympathy for Cass wanting to know who her parents were. Her birth parents, Cass agreed to call them. Oh, her mother said she had sympathy. She said she understood. But she wouldn?t do anything about it.
With a normal adoption, you could march over to the adoption agency and demand to know the names of your birth parents. (?Sure, when you turn eighteen,? her mother repeatedly reminded her. ?Until then, the records are sealed.?) Because Cass had been dropped on a doorstep, there was no agency to consult.
To Cass the answer was simple: hire a detective. But her mother refused. Even when Cass said she?d give up her allowance for a year.
So, not for the first time, Cass decided to play detective herself.
?Please help me,? said Cass. ?You have no idea what it?s like not to know who your parents are. Your parents fight over you every second of your life.?
?I said OK, didn?t I??
Max-Ernest made a big show of examining a shoebox on the shelf in front of him. ?You think a baby could fit in this???
?No.?
?What if it was a midget baby??
?You know what?why don?t you just leave??
Before Max-Ernest could respond:
Thunk!
It was the sound of something very heavy dropping on the ground. Followed by a loud insistent pounding on the front door.

CHAPTER ONE, PART TWO

*I COULDN?T DECIDE WHETHER THE EVENTS THAT TRANSPIRED IN CASS?S GRANDFATHERS? STORE SHOULD BE PRESENTED AS ONE CHAPTER OR TWO. SO I MADE IT ONE CHAPTER IN TWO PARTS. THAT?S WHAT?S KNOWN AS SPLITTING THE DIFFERENCE.

Thunk!
Again. And more pounding.
?Who is that?? Max-Ernest whispered, pale. ?I thought the store was closed.?
Cass shrugged, trying her best to look unconcerned. But she abandoned the box she?d been inspecting and stood up all the same. ?Probably somebody unloading their old junk on my grandfathers, like usual.?
Thunk!
Louder this time. They both flinched.
?Yeah, but what if it isn?t?? said Max-Ernest, staring at the front door. ?There?s no time to get a message to the Terces Society.?
Cass?s ears tingled in alarm at the mention of their secret organization. ?Shh! You never know who?s listening.?
?That?s my point,? Max-Ernest whispered. ?The Midnight Sun could be right outside the door, for all we know. How ?bout that??
Cass looked at him, her ears now turning cold.
Max-Ernest was right. The terrible truth was: they had done such a good job of driving away their enemies they no longer knew where their enemies were.
It had been months since they?d last seen the Midnight Sun?s malevolent leaders, Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L, flying away from a mountaintop graveyard in a black helicopter, and despite the Terces Society?s best efforts, they?d been unable to determine where that helicopter had gone.
Those insidious, invidious, and perfectly perfidious alchemists could be anywhere.
?Maybe they?ve been waiting all this time for your grandfathers to leave,? Max-Ernest continued. ?And now they?re going to seize their chance to take revenge on us.?
Cass didn?t say anything; she didn?t have to.
They waited another minute or so?it felt much longer?but there were no more thunks. Just the usual ticks and tocks and whirs and beeps of the many old clocks and assorted gizmos that cluttered the store.
Then they started tiptoeing toward the front door.
Bang! Crash!
They froze. This time the sounds came from inside.
Had somebody broken in?
Grabbing each other?s hands, they started turning around in slow circles (although whether they were looking for the sources of the sounds or for someplace to hide I?m not certain).
Finally, Max-Ernest pointed to the floor?
At his feet were the broken pieces of a ceramic rooster he?d knocked over. That was what had made all the noise. Well, those last noises. The bang and the crash. The thunking and pounding remained to be explained.
They waited another minute. Nothing.
Cass cracked the front door open?
And they breathed matching sighs of relief.
Cass?s first guess had been correct: there were three cardboard boxes waiting for them on the landing.
They wouldn?t have to battle the Midnight Sun, after all. Not right now anyway.
?Let?s see,? Cass said, expertly shaking the boxes one by one. ?Shoes?hope they don?t stink too bad? shirts?all stained probably? magazines??
After struggling to find places in which to squeeze the new merchandise, Cass resumed searching for the cardboard box that had been her very first home.
Max-Ernest, meanwhile, sat back down on his encyclopedia pile and started flipping through the box of magazines. There were many kinds, some recent, some going back years. Sadly for Max-Ernest, there were no puzzle books or magic manuals or science magazines (the three things he was looking for in order of preference).
He was about to close up the box when he noticed a magazine that had been buried near the bottom.
?Hey, look at this?it?s from last week.?
?We? Since when do you care about We?? Cass laughed. ?That?s like all celebrity gossip and stuff. Have you even heard of the names in it??
?I?ve heard of the Skelton Sisters??
He walked over to Cass and thrust the magazine under her nose.
The cover of We showed two skinny blond girls?the twin teen superstars known as the Skelton Sisters?who just happened to be two of the youngest members of the Midnight Sun. (Most members were much older, as in hundreds of years older.) They were smiling dumbly at the camera, one of them holding an unhappy-looking baby?as far away from her body as possible.
Cass smirked. ?She looks like the baby just peed on her or something.?
She opened the magazine to an article headlined:

Twin Hearts IN AFRICA:
THE SKELTON SISTERS? LATEST ROCK TOUR
IS A GOODWILL MISSION.

A two-page picture showed the twins standing with a nun in a white habit. Surrounding them were a dozen grinning children.
And in the background: a bright green bird with a long tail flying into the jungle.
Cass read the caption aloud:

Romi and Montana Skelton with Sister Antoinette at the Loving Heart Orphanage in the Cote d?Ivoire. The self-supporting orphanage runs a cacao plantation on which all the children lend a hand. ?It?s a wonderful learning experience, like an open-air classroom,? says Sister Antoinette. ?And of course at the end of the day there?s always plenty of chocolate for everyone!?

Cass looked up from the magazine, shaking her head. ?Can you believe they were at an orphanage? Probably they just went to have their photo taken? Hey, wait a second?we know this nun!?
?I doubt it,? said Max-Ernest. ?I don?t know any nuns. I mean, unless I know a nun but I don?t know I do??
?Well, you know this one.?
Max-Ernest stared. ?Oh no, is that who I think it is??
Cass nodded, excited. ?Can you imagine anybody less likely to be a nun than Ms. Mauvais??
?So we found the Midnight Sun? How ?bout that??
Cass grinned. ?How ?bout that? We have to tell everybody right away!?
?Tell us what? We?re dying to know!?
They looked up from the magazine, startled.
Grandpa Wayne and Grandpa Larry had entered through the back, and were now standing over them, smiling.
It wasn?t a very comforting sight.
Larry and Wayne had been competing with each other in a beard-growing contest for the last six months, and they were both looking slightly bed-raggled, to put it mildly. (Larry brushed his beard religiously and Wayne braided his in two long strands?but neither approach really helped.)
Sebastian, their old, ailing, and blind basset hound, was sleeping in a baby sling around Grandpa Larry?s neck. Dog drool dribbled down Larry?s arm.
?So what?s the big news?? asked Grandpa Larry.
?Oh, nothing,? Cass stammered. ?You know, gossip. It?s a gossip magazine.?
Grandpa Wayne eyed the magazine open on Cass?s lap. ?Is that those girls?what are they called, the Skeleton Sisters??
?Skelton, not skeleton. But ghoulish nonetheless,? Larry sniffed. ?Why a granddaughter of mine would be interested in girls like them, I?m sure I don?t know.?
Cass?s first instinct was to defend herself, but instead she offered a rueful smile. ?It?s just so I know what the other kids are talking about. So I don?t seem like a freak. Sorry, I know it?s lame.??
She would have to live with her grandfathers? disapproval. Today she and Max-Ernest had made a major discovery. Maybe it wasn?t the discovery she?d been hoping for, but in a way it was much more important.
?How?s Sebastian?? she asked, changing the subject.
?Oh, he?ll be fine?won?t you, Sebastian?? Larry patted the dog?s head.
The dog barked halfheartedly, drooling onto Max-Ernest, who hastily wiped it away.
?Dander?it?s in the saliva. I?m really allergic,? he explained to no one in particular.
Late that night, five people?a retired magician, a certified public accountant, an out-of-work actor, and a violin teacher and her student?all received the same e-mail message from somebody named Miss Ardnassac:

LOOKING FOR SUN?
CHEAP VACATION!
ONE DAY ONLY!

Anybody reading over their shoulders would have assumed it was spam. Junk mail. The recipients knew it was anything but.
The message meant Cassandra had information about the Midnight Sun.
?Vacation? was the Terces Society?s code word for meeting.
?Cheap? signaled that the meeting was urgent.
?One day only? meant the meeting would be the veryyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy y y yy y y y

CHAPTER TWO
Deceptively Sweet

Aaaargh, my head hurts!
What happened? Is it night already?
I must have dozed off in the middle of that last sentence.
Don't worry, there wasn't much left. Just “the very next day.”
I wonder what could have made me pass out like that. Too much chocolate? I have to admit: it wouldn’t be the first time.
Hmmm. I could have sworn I left those pages in a pile. What are they doing on the floor?
Has somebody else been here?
Hey, you don’t suppose…?
I wonder…
If a certain person or persons wanted to come in and read the pages on my desk while I was working, how would they do it? How would they get me out of the way? Might they slip me a sleeping pill—say, in a gift box full of chocolate?
What was that you said earlier? That the chocolate I received must be some kind of trick? Funny how positive you were about that. Almost like you knew something you weren’t telling me.
Not that I’m accusing you.
Or am I?
You know, people always warn children about taking candy from strange adults. But they never warn us adults about taking candy from strange children.
All those sweet-looking kids who sell boxes of candy bars on the street to help pay for their schooling—how do we know what’s in those bars? And don’t get me started on that nefarious institution designed to lure unsuspecting customers into buying mysterious frosted goodies: the bake sale.
Adults, be warned: if a child wanted to poison you it would be a piece of cake! Literally a piece of cake.
As for you, you’re showing yourself to be the worst kind of reader, aren’t you? The kind that skips ahead to the end to find out what happens without reading the whole book. The kind that stops at nothing to get what he wants.
The kind that stoops even to drugging the writer!
I should have you arrested.
OK. Maybe I should calm down. I’m getting ahead of myself. After all, I have no proof that you are the culprit. Not yet.
And I should consider you innocent until proven guilty, right?
In the meantime, consider yourself warned: I will get to the bottom of this. Whoever was in here rifling through my papers, I’m going to sniff him or her out if it’s the last thing I do.
Until then, back to the book.

CHAPTER THREE
CLOWN CAMP

Don’t worry, Missus, we take great care of our campers here. Tightrope walking it is today, right Mickey?”
“Morrie, don’t joke—you know that’s too dangerous for the kiddies! Today, we’re practicing… uh, squeezing into a Volkswagen. Or is it balloon-tying? Yeah, that’s it…Balloons 101—always the first course for us zanies.”*
Clutching tight to her steering wheel, Cass’s mother looked dubiously at the two clowns grinning down at her from outside her car window.
As with any self-respecting comic duo, one clown, Mickey, was tall and skinny, and the other, Morrie, was short and squat. But they were equally unkempt-looking; it was difficult to tell whether the color on their faces was clown makeup or leftover hot dog.
Mickey had Cass under his arm, Morrie had Max-Ernest under his. Not a very reassuring sight for a mother.
“OK, Mel—are you satisfied?” asked Cass. (Lately, Cass had taken to calling her mother by her first name, rather than calling her “Mom” or what her mother would have preferred, “Mommy.”)
Her mother sighed. “All right… but don’t forget to meet me here right at two o’clock. We have that class this afternoon, remember?”
As soon as Cass’s mother drove away, Cass and Max-Ernest disentangled themselves from the clowns.
Mickey shook his red wig in amazement. “Clown Camp? Who’d a thunk? I wonder if there’s any money in it…”
“Hey, you guys better get going. Don’t want to be late for balloon-tying,” said Morrie with a wink.
“Um, do you know where?” asked Cass, slightly abashed.
It was the first time the Terces Society had met since Pietro had decided they should leave their longtime home, the Magic Museum (having the Midnight Sun break in once was enough!), and she and Max-Ernest weren’t certain exactly where to go.
Mickey gestured to the far end of the dirt parking lot where a big striped circus tent flapped in the wind. A few smaller, more dilapidated tents stood next to it. They looked as if they might collapse at any moment.
“Farthest one from the Big Top. The Side-show tent.”
“Thanks,” said Cass. She lowered her voice: “Keep your eyes open, OK? For anybody wearing gloves…”
“Don’t worry,” said Morrie. “No rotten old alchemist is going to get past this clown!”
Smiling mischievously, Morrie pulled a gun out of his baggy plaid pants and pointed it at an imaginary assailant.
A red flag popped out of the barrel: B A N G!
Inside the sideshow tent, a row of old folding chairs sat on the dirt in front of a small stage that slanted steeply down on one side and was missing boards on the other.
For most of that morning, a tall boy with floppy hair had been standing on top of the stage taking a violin lesson. A long and hard violin lesson. He had been playing so long and hard his fingers were starting to bleed.
It felt like that anyway. At the very least, his fingers were red.
Raw. Definitely raw.
The worst part was he’d only been allowed to play scales. For three months. Even though he was an advanced student.
Yo-Yoji couldn’t help feeling that he was being punished. His teacher, Lily—or Master Wei, as she insisted he call her—was angry that he’d quit playing violin the year before in favor of electric guitar, and now she was making him make up for lost time.
“You can run away from your talent, but you can’t run away from me!” she said.
Master Wei was the toughest woman he’d ever met. Also, possibly, the most beautiful. But that was beside the point. You’d probably be killed if you ever mentioned it.
Apart from being a violin teacher, she was also the Terces Society’s head of physical defense and a martial arts expert. It was partly for this reason that Yo-Yoji kept practicing the violin.
Yo-Yoji’s main interests consisted of rock music and video games and collecting rare, brightly colored sneakers. But ever since spending a year in Japan he’d become more and more fascinated with Japanese history, especially the history of the samurai. He had memorized the samurai’s Bushido (“way of the warrior”) code, and he spent much of his free time watching old samurai movies on DVD.*
Master Wei was Chinese and specialized in judo and kung fu. But she was also well versed in most Japanese martial arts, including kenjutsu, the traditional form of Japanese sword fighting practiced by the samurai. He hoped one day she would make him her kenjutsu apprentice.
It looked like he would be waiting a long time.
“Violin or kenjutsu, the philosophy is the same,” she would say, whenever he asked about it. “As my father always said—”
“I know, practice makes permanent,” Yo-Yoji would finish her sentence.
“You think you are too advanced for scales? There is no such thing!” she would respond. “As my father always said—”
“I know, to go forward, you must first go back.”
Today, though, was different. They’d be quitting their lesson early—after three hours, rather than the usual four. So they could attend the meeting.
The message from Cass had filled Yo-Yoji with excitement. At last, they had found the Midnight Sun! The Terces Society was back in business. And maybe, just maybe, Master Wei would let him stop practicing the violin and would teach him the skills he needed to face the Midnight Sun in combat.
But he was worried about seeing Cass again. They hadn’t spoken all summer. Before that, they’d barely been on speaking terms. Ever since Cass learned that Yo-Yoji had been hiding his membership in the Terces Society from her and Max-Ernest.
When was she going to forgive him?
Knowing he was going to see Cass, Yo-Yoji had put on his lucky sneakers that morning. The neon yellow vintage ones he bought in Japan.* They were a little too big for him then and a little too small now, but they were the coolest shoes he owned. Very rare and collectible. Usually, he only wore them when he was playing with his rock band, Alien Earache. Or when he was taking a test.
Not that Cass would notice his shoes anyway. She was always concerned with more serious things. Like tornadoes and floods and toxic sludge.
When Cass and Max-Ernest walked in carrying armloads of books, Yo-Yoji decided to play it as though nothing were wrong.
“Yo, dudes! What’s up?”
He waved his violin bow in their direction.
Cass and Max-Ernest both took involuntary steps backward.
Yo-Yoji laughed. “Relax. There’s no sword in this bow. It’s just a normal violin. Like Master Wei would even let me use hers.”
“That’s right. And you’re not done practicing—you have three minutes to go,” said Lily, crossing from the other side of the room to greet the newcomers.
“As for you two—”
She pulled a long, needlelike sword out of her violin bow and pointed it at Cass and Max-Ernest, who both tried (unsuccessfully) not to jump.
“You two are next—we have to work on your reflexes. Jumping in fright is not a good defensive posture.” She smiled to show she was playing with them.
“Hi, Lily.” Cass smiled back while sneaking a peek at the reluctant violin student.
The first thing Cass noticed: he was wearing his yellow shoes—her favorite ones, although she would never think of mentioning it to him.
“Where’s everybody else?” she asked, turning away from Yo-Yoji before he could see where she was looking.
“Oh, they’ll be here in a minute. Pietro’s back in the archives with Mr. Wallace.” Lily nodded toward an opening in the tent.
Through the opening, Cass and Max-Ernest could just make out the refrigerated trailer where the Terces Society Archives were now hidden. It was marked CAT FOOD in faded letters and had held the huge sides of meat that fed the “big cats” back when the circus was home to a team of hula hoop–jumping lions.
A man in an airplane pilot’s uniform stepped out of the trailer and headed into the tent.
“Who’s that?” whispered Cass, concerned. Strangers were unwelcome at Terces Society meetings, to say the least.
“Oh, a visitor,” said Lily lightly. “He’s Swiss, I think.”
“Guten Tag, Fraulein Cass,” said the mysterious pilot.
“Um, guten Tag…”
“That means ‘good day’ in German,” said Max-Ernest helpfully.
“You don’t speak German,” said Cass.
“Yeah, but I memorized how to say hello in a hundred languages.”*
“Very wise, indeed,” said the stranger, removing his hat.
Now Cass recognized him: “Owen?” Formerly a struggling actor/waiter, Owen was a master of disguise and frequently used his talents in the service of the Terces Society.
“I didn’t know you were a pilot,” said Max-Ernest, impressed.
Owen laughed. “I’m not really. But I am about to fly to Switzerland.”
“So, did you learn to say hello in Italian?” Pietro, the old Italian magician, had entered the tent. He smiled at Cass and Max-Ernest. “How about a buon giorno for your old friend? Or do you prefer ciao?”
“Buon giorno!” Cass and Max-Ernest repeated, thrilled to see their pink-cheeked, gray-mustached, and almost always cheerful-looking leader.
He was followed closely by the tall, gaunt, and almost always pained-looking Mr. Wallace. The young Terces members waved halfheartedly at Mr. Wallace. He responded with a dry, raspy cough.
Pietro frowned, touching his wildly bushy mustache. “I think there is maybe a mustache hair out of place. It is annoying me and tickling my nose. Max-Ernest, can you please pull?”
Max-Ernest stared in surprise. “You want me to pull your mustache hair?”
“Yes, if you please.” Pietro thrust out his nose, offering his mustache.
“Uh, OK,” said Max-Ernest uneasily. Embarrassed, he reached forward and plucked an unruly hair. Pietro reeled backward.
“Ow! Not that one, this one!” He pointed to another hair, curling jauntily upward around his nostril. “And be careful!”
“Oh. Sorry.” Max-Ernest carefully tugged on the offending tendril and pulled out a small gray—
mouse.
It dangled by its tail, clawing at the air.
“Eeek!” Max-Ernest dropped the mouse and it scurried across the dirt floor.
Pietro grinned. “It is my new trick. I call it the Mouse-Stache. You like?”
Max-Ernest guffawed loudly. “I think it’s great!”
Nobody else said anything.
Cass and Yo-Yoji glanced at each other. Yo-Yoji raised his eyebrows slightly as if to say, Can you believe them?
Cass rolled her eyes as if to say, I know, they’re always like this. And then she smiled. Maybe it was time to forgive him, she thought.
Maybe.

CHAPTER FOUR
BLOOD CHOCOLATE

Ten minutes later, Cass and Max-Ernest stood on the sideshow stage in front of a blackboard, drawing diagrams and writing down key points—just as if they were giving an oral report in school. (Not that they’d ever worked this hard on an actual oral report.)
They were so excited they kept tripping over each other’s words:


Cass
Max-Ernest


“We found out where the Midnight Sun are hiding!”

“They’re in the Cote d’Ivoire. That’s Ivory Coast in French. That’s what they speak there—”

“They’re on a chocolate plantation. And—”

“The Cote d’Ivoire is in West Africa and that’s where most of the cocoa beans in the world come from, although they’re really
cacao seeds—”

“They have an orphanage!”

“But we think it’s actually cover for a child labor camp—”

“Do you know how much chocolate is made with child labor?”

“Almost half the chocolate you buy! How ’bout that?”

“Some people call it blood chocolate—”

“Which is like blood diamonds—diamonds mined by slaves—”

“And after this is all over I'm going to organize a chocolate boycott—”

Now wait just a moment—a chocolate boycott?
The very idea makes me shudder.
With your permission, I will skip their lecture about the so-called evils of the chocolate trade and move on to the next part of their presentation.*
I’m afraid I’m going to have to cut-in in the middle of a sentence, but I’m confident you’ll catch the drift:
“… and here it is,” concluded Cass. She stepped off the stage and handed the magazine to Pietro.
“I agree—this picture, it is not right. Thank you for sharing it with us,” said the old magician, studying the photo in We. “The reason Owen is going to Switzerland—it is because the Midnight Sun, through their business, Midnight Chocolate Incorporated, they are buying the chocolate companies all over the world. And now, we see, the chocolate plantations, too…”
“So what are we going to do?” Yo-Yoji asked, standing.
“Should we go to Africa to investigate?” asked Cass.
“Absolutely.”
Cass lit up. “That’s great! When do we go?”
Pietro chuckled. He leaned back in his folding chair. “I was thinking of Owen. He will be halfway there already.”
Cass couldn’t hide her disappointment. “But what about us?”
“And how would you explain to your mother?” asked Pietro.
“Then what can we do? There has to be something!”
Pietro smiled at the eager young Terces member. “With the Midnight Sun, there is never the accident. Why the interest in the chocolate? We have been wondering and wondering. Is there perhaps a history of using the chocolate in the alchemy?”
“Does it have something to do with the Secret?” asked Max-Ernest.
The tent went quiet for a moment.
Although the entire purpose of the Terces Society was to preserve and protect the Secret, the Secret was seldom mentioned aloud.
“Everything they do, it has to do with the Secret,” Pietro said finally. “Nothing matters to the Midnight Sun except the immortality they think the Secret will give them. That’s why this chocolate business is so confusing.”
He stood, kicking his folding chair aside.
“What does the Midnight Sun want with the chocolate!? They never eat. They are like vampires. Is it for the money? But they have treasures going back centuries!”
He gesticulated with his hands, expressing the depth of his frustration. “I do not understand what they are after—that Ms. Mauvais and my Lucian… I mean, Dr. L.” He spit out the name as if it were dirty.
If Pietro was especially emotional on the subject of Dr. L, everyone in the tent knew why: Dr. L was Pietro’s twin brother, Luciano. He had been kidnapped by Ms. Mauvais as a young boy and raised to be her partner. The hatred between Dr. L and Pietro was now as strong as their love once was.
Ending his long silence, Mr. Wallace held up a file stuffed with documents. Although he was an accountant by day, Mr. Wallace’s true profession was that of Terces Society archivist. “Whatever the Midnight Sun is doing with all this chocolate, we think the Tuning Fork is involved somehow.”
“Tuning fork? You mean like in music? To tune your instrument?” asked Yo-Yoji. “I have one at home.”
Mr. Wallace gave him a withering look. “Not that kind of tuning fork, something much older. It is a cooking utensil, but according to the legends of the alchemists, much more.”
He pulled a rumpled piece of paper out of the file and passed it around. It was an old drawing of a two-pronged instrument that looked something like a musical tuning fork (if you know what a musical tuning fork looks like), but it was longer and more rough-hewn.
“With the Tuning Fork in his hand, a Chef has the power to stir into being any taste in the world—as long as the eater has tasted it before,” said Mr. Wallace as the others examined the drawing. “The food of the fork acts on a person’s memory in a way that haunts him. And he wants it again and again.”
“So what does it have to do with chocolate, Mr. Wallace?” Cass asked nervously. Mr. Wallace wasn’t the easiest person to speak to.
“I was getting to that, if you would only wait a moment. As the story goes, the Tuning Fork was forged by an Aztec sorcerer and was first used to stir chocolate for the Aztec emperor. You know of course that chocolate came from the New World and was originally served only as a drink.”
“Yeah, we knew that,” said Max-Ernest, as if they’d known it for years and hadn’t just read it on the Internet the night before.
“The Tuning Fork, I thought it was only the myth,” said Pietro. “But who knows—Mr. Wallace, he may be right this time. Unlike the usual.” He laughed at his own joke. “Cass, Max-Ernest, Yo-Yoji—I want you to learn what you can about this Tuning Fork. Is it real? Where is it? Let us hope we can find it before the Midnight Sun do.”
“Well, where do you think it might be?” asked Max-Ernest. “Are there any clues?”
“Not many,” said Mr. Wallace. “Supposedly, the fork traveled to Europe with a monk in the late fifteen hundreds—”
Rrrrring.
A loud and ill-timed telephone ring stopped Mr. Wallace in the middle of his sentence.
Her ears burning with embarrassment, Cass pulled her phone out of her pocket.
“You brought a cell phone into a Terces Society meeting?” Mr. Wallace stared in a way that would give the strictest grade school teacher a run for her money. “Never mind how rude that is—think of the danger. It could be bugged.”
“Oh, do not be so hard on the girl,” said Pietro. “Nobody has bugged her phone.”
“It’s my mom,” said Cass sheepishly. “I’m supposed to meet her outside right now. She thinks this is… clown camp.”
“Go on then,” said Pietro. “Answer.”
Miserable, Cass clicked on her phone. “Hello, Mel… No, no, don’t get out of your car! It’s all over. There’s nothing to see… No, we aren’t tightrope walking, I swear…”
Having a mother, even an adopted one, was terribly inconvenient when you were a member of a secret society. Perhaps, Cass thought, she didn’t want more parents, after all.

CHAPTER FIVE
The CUISINE of The Senses

A real chef needs only one knife. It is his sword. It is his best friend. It is everything to him.”
A man of the type often called dark and swarthy stood behind a stove holding a large knife in his gloved hand.
He wore a black chef’s coat and, covering his bald scalp, a black scarf decorated with skulls and crossbones. Adding to the pirate look: a hoop of gold in his left ear and a goatee ringing his mouth.
He also wore a pair of extremely dark sunglasses.
The glasses of a blind man.
He raised the knife higher so it gleamed in the light. “A real chef would as soon give up his knife as cut off his arm.”
Then he sliced his knife through the air if he were about to cut off his arm in demonstration.
It was, in fact, a demonstration kitchen—a class-room clad in stainless steel—and facing him, on the other side of the stove, sat an audience of twelve.
His students gasped. Then let out a collective sigh of relief when the knife landed point-down in a cutting board.
“Other knives, like these here—bread knife, paring knife, boning knife—” He pulled the knives off a magnetic rack one by one, as easily as if he could see them. “They’re for amateurs.”
He smiled slyly, the stove’s blue-flamed burners reflecting in his sunglasses. “Or for carnival tricks.”
Without warning, he tossed the three knives into the air and juggled for a good thirty seconds. The knives spun so fast they were a blur.
Until he let them drop in quick succession, chopping an array of vegetables so they splayed on the counter in perfect rainbow formation.
An astonishing show, even if he hadn’t been blind.
“Always keep your knives sharp. Contrary to popular belief, they’re much more dangerous when they’re dull.”
The class burst into applause. Slightly muted applause because, like the chef, they all wore rubber surgical gloves. (He insisted that everyone keep their hands covered in the kitchen.)
But there was one person whose applause was mute for the simple reason that she was not clapping.
Yes, it was Cass. The pointy-eared and very grim-faced girl in the front row.
Her mother had received the brochure for the cooking class not long after Cass first confronted her about the adoption. It boasted a picture of the chef in his sunglasses, posing like a movie star.
“Look, Cass—what a great way for us to spend some time together!”
“Why would we want to do that? We already live together,” Cass had pointed out.
“Cass…!”
“Well, why a cooking class?”
“How about so we can start having some home-cooked meals?”
“What’s the matter with Thai takeout? That’s what we used to always have.”
“Exactly! I want to fill the house with the smells of cooking. The smells of childhood. The smells you will remember your entire life,” her mother had answered.
But as far as Cass was concerned, her entire childhood had turned out to be a lie. She didn’t care how it smelled.
And now here she was having to sit in class with her mother when she should have been hunting for the Tuning Fork with Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji.
“I can’t believe you like him. He’s such a showoff,” Cass whispered a few minutes later, when they were taking turns chopping zucchini.
“How could he be a showoff?—he’s blind. Anyway, he has a right to be. Señor Hugo is one of the greatest chefs in the world. He invented the Cuisine of the Senses,” said her mother reverently. “And so handsome, too,” she added.
As if on cue, Señor Hugo stepped up behind them. “Oh, I wouldn’t say invented. Maybe developed…”
He spoke with the lisping Spanish accent known as Catalan—the accent of his native city, Barcelona, or as the Catalans pronounce it, Barthelona.
“I’m sorry—may I…? I can tell by the noise you make that you’re not using the proper motion.” The blind chef put his hand over Cass’s mother’s, gently correcting her chopping technique.
She blushed. Cass rolled her eyes. Her mother’s crush was so obvious!
“All the senses are important to a chef—but luckily for me, sight is the least important,” continued Señor Hugo.
Finally, he let go of Cass’s mother’s hand. (A little too late, in Cass’s opinion.)
“I always wait to taste the food I cook,” he said to the room at large. “Take a curry. First I dip my finger in and feel the texture. Is it too powdery? too foamy? I listen to the sounds. That hiss means it’s not hot enough. That sizzle? Too hot. And at every stage I smell smell smell. Did you know that what we think of as taste is mostly scent? By itself the tongue only detects five flavors: sweet, sour, salt, bitter, and one other—have any of you heard of umami?”
“Yeah, it’s the taste of fat,” said Cass knowingly.
Señor Hugo nodded. “Yes, some people say that, although I prefer to call it savoriness or deliciousness.”
He turned to the room. “Only when a dish is finished do I dare taste it. And when I do, I feel as if at last I can see, as if I have gained a kind of second sight.… Even so, there are some things I can taste only in my head.”
“You mean, there are things you can’t cook?” asked Cass’s mother in surprise. “A master chef like you.”
“All artists strive to greater heights, do they not?” the chef responded. “Take chocolate, which is my passion…”
“Oh, it’s my passion, too!” said Cass’s mother.
Cass groaned inwardly.
“My life’s ambition is to make the ultimate bar of chocolate. The best, the purest, the darkest chocolate of all time. As close to one hundred percent cacao as possible.”
It figures he would make chocolate, thought Cass, imagining the pirate chef commanding a ship full of child slaves.
“I keep trying to find the right equipment—”
He gestured toward the wall behind the audience. Sitting on a long steel shelf were dozens of cooking devices: narrow siphons, bulbous whisks, tall Bunsen burners, double, triple, and even quadruple boilers. They looked like they belonged in a chemistry lab rather than in a kitchen.
“I can taste it in my mind. But I have not yet made my chocolate a reality.”
“Too bad you don’t have the Tuning Fork,” said Cass as snottily as she could.
Señor Hugo whipped his head around. “The what…?”
“The Tuning Fork. The mythical cooking instrument made by the Aztecs. Anybody who had it could make any taste he wanted. Since you’re such a great chef I just thought you would know what it was.”
“Go on. I’m very interested in culinary history,” said the chef, his attention fixed on Cass. She could almost have sworn he was staring at her.
“That’s it. That’s all I know about it…” She faltered, suddenly realizing the implications of what she’d just said.
Of what she’d just done.
“So how did you hear about this… Tuning Fork?” Señor Hugo persisted.
“I don’t know. Maybe at school…?” Her voice squeaked unconvincingly.
“You must go to a very interesting school,” said Señor Hugo.
According to Mr. Wallace, the Tuning Fork might not even exist. But that wasn’t the point.
Never talk about the Terces Society. Or anything to do with the Terces Society. It was the Society’s first rule. Almost its only rule.
“Since you’re such an expert in cuisine you must come to my restaurant as my guest!”
“Did you hear that, Cass? What an honor!” gushed her mother.
Their classmates nodded and clapped in envy.
“Señor Hugo’s restaurant is famous,” said one of the aspiring chefs. “Everybody eats in the dark—so you have to guess what your food is.”
“People wait months for a reservation,” said another. “It’s like getting the golden ticket!”
“But we can’t,” said Cass. “Remember, I’m supposed to work on that report with Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji? The one about chocolate and child slavery? It’s due the first day of school.”
(The three kids had all told their parents the same thing; their first “homework” session was scheduled for Saturday.)
“Well, then, your friends should come, too. On Saturday, we will be featuring a multi-course chocolate tasting menu. It will be research. For your report… oh, and don’t forget your Tuning Fork!” joked Señor Hugo.
“Ha ha,” said Cass, not laughing.
She tried to cheer herself up. As much as she disliked Señor Hugo, what real harm could it do that he knew about the Tuning Fork?
After all, she reasoned, he was a chef, not an alchemist. There was no way he could know Dr. L or Ms. Mauvais. It wasn’t as if he were a member of the Midnight Sun.
But it was no use; she felt terrible.
At least the blind chef wouldn’t see the tears of guilt welling in her eyes.

CHAPTER SIX
THE OTHER GLOVE

I must pause now to do something I hate: apologize.
Cherish these words because I doubt you will hear them from me again: I’m sorry.
You’re not the conniving coward who sent me those chocolates. You’re not the scurrilous scoundrel who trespassed on my property, who rifled through my personal papers.
I know that now.
You see, after an exhaustive search of my office, I found a glove. A white glove. It was caught in the clasp of a chest I keep beside my desk. The true intruder must have left it there.
Naturally, it is alarming to discover that the Midnight Sun has found me. In an odd way, though, it’s a relief. It was inevitable, once I started telling these stories, that they would try to locate me. Now it’s done. The other shoe has dropped.
Or rather, the other glove.
What I don’t understand is why they left my book intact. Why did they leave me intact for that matter?
Are they simply toying with me? Biding their time until they strike again?
What strange plot is afoot?
Speaking of strange plots, I’d better continue with mine. Time, it is now clear, is of the essence.
Let’s see: where were we? I’m afraid my close brush with the Midnight Sun has addled my brain just a little.
Oh, yes. Hugo’s restaurant. That’s what comes next. But I just had an awful realization: you’re out of sync with the story.
Unlike Cass, you already know who Señor Hugo is, don’t you?
If you haven’t guessed yet, I will give you a moment to figure it out. Here’s a hint: think back to Chapter Fifteen, the chapter I let you read at the beginning of this book…
That’s right! Señor Hugo is one of the three villains in the Tasting Room—those people keeping Simone, the supertaster, prisoner. Hugo is the blind man. The one Simone calls the Pirate.
And who are Simone’s other two captors, the ones she calls the Doctor and the Barbie Doll?
Correct. They’re none other than that dread duo, Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais.
My question is this: have I ruined the suspense by clueing you in that the chef is a villain?
Or, on the contrary, have I made the meal the kids are about to have at his restaurant scarier?
Think about it: Cass and her friends will be eating in the dark. They will be entirely in Señor Hugo’s power. He could poison them—or worse.
Alfred Hitchcock, the famous film director and master of suspense, always maintained that knowing something terrible was about to happen was scarier than not knowing.
Well, you know that something terrible is going to happen. (And believe me, it is!) Was Hitchcock right? Are you frightened? How frightened?
Please circle the face that best represents how you feel right now.

1. INSANELY UNSCARED—WOULD JUMP OUT OF AN AIRPLANE WITHOUT A PARACHUTE.
2. LAUGHING AT FEAR—WOULD JUMP OUT OF A PLANE WITH A PARACHUTE.
3. BRING IT ON—WOULD BUNGEE JUMP OFF A BRIDGE.
4. HAPPY AS A CLAM — WOULD BUNGEE JUMP IF PUSHED..
5. NORMAL—DON’T FEEL THE NEED TO TEST THE LAWS OF GRAVITY.
6. SLIGHTLY NERVOUS—THERE’S A CHILL IN THE BACK OF MY NECK.
7. SCARED—SHIVER DOWN MY SPINE, DOUBLE-CHECKING THE LOCKS.
8. VERY SCARED—TEETH CHATTERING, KNUCKLES WHITENING.
9. BEYOND TERRIFIED—FROZEN.
10. CATATONIC.
Thank you. That was very helpful.

CHAPTER SEVEN
A Stab in the Dark

From the outside, Hugo’s restaurant, El Castillo de La Noche, looked as its name suggested it would. Like a castillo. A castle.
But a castle dipped in blue. Midnight blue.
The stone walls, the iron gates, even the turrets and the gargoyles—all were painted the same deep dark shade.
As Cass passed through the gates with her mother and Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji, they all shivered involuntarily. The sun had not yet set but they seemed to be entering a kind of permanent twilight.
In front of them, a shadowy tunnel of oak trees led to the restaurant entrance.
“I hope there’s at least one thing that doesn’t have chocolate,” said Max-Ernest. “I’m hungry.”
“Too bad we haven’t found the Tuning Fork yet,” whispered Yo-Yoji. “Then you could turn your food into whatever you want.”
“Yeah, but I wonder—even if I could change the taste, wouldn’t I still be allergic? Or do you think—”
“Shh,” whispered Cass, indicating her mother, who was only a few steps ahead of them.
The reminder about the Tuning Fork had made Cass slightly sick to her stomach. Although she’d planned on telling her friends about her little verbal slip, she hadn’t yet found the right moment.
Or maybe it was that she hadn’t yet found the courage.
The restaurant’s tall front doors were shut and all the windows were shuttered. It looked as if the restaurant might be closed.
But as they stepped onto the portico the doors opened and Señor Hugo emerged from the dim interior.
“Cassandra,” he said, smiling directly at her. “My guest of honor.”
How, she wondered, did he know where she was? She hadn’t uttered a word. Did he recognize her smell?
“Allow me to welcome the princess to her castle.” He offered his arm.
Cass had no more a desire to take his arm than she had a desire to be called “princess,” but her mother gave her a nudge, so Cass allowed the chef to escort her inside.
The entry room was dark and very plain, save for a candelabra sitting on a small table in the center. The flickering candles reflected on the glass surface.
Mismatched bouquets of color-clashing flowers were spread around the room apparently at random. But as she examined them more closely, Cass realized that the flowers were in fact very carefully arranged:
“They’re scent bouquets,” she said to Max-Ernest. “See, this one’s all lemon smells—”
He nodded. “It’s stronger when you brush against it—”
A discreet sign listed the rules of the restaurant. Written in Braille as well as printed, it was hung low enough on the wall for a person to touch:

Welcome to El Castillo de la Noche,
The Castle of Darkness

The following items are forbidden:

Lighters and matches

Illuminated watches

Cell phones

Pocket knives

Pens and pencils

Please leave all bags at the reception desk

“Does a backpack count?” Cass asked their host.
Her backpack contained nearly every forbidden item. But she didn’t feel secure leaving it. Especially at Hugo’s restaurant.
“Normally, yes. But for you we will make an exception.”
Why was he being so nice to her? Cass wondered. Was it possible he wasn’t as bad as she thought?
“You are about to enter a world of darkness,” said the chef to the group at large. “But it is our hope that you will not feel so much the loss of sight. Instead, you will feel as if your other senses are heightened.”
Behind Señor Hugo, a pair of dark blue curtains opened and a pale man in a gray smock silently entered the room.
Señor Hugo acknowledged the newcomer without turning around. “Howard will be your waiter and your guide. Like all of us here, he is blind and has no trouble navigating in the dark.” The chef bowed. “And now, if you will excuse me, the kitchen beckons—”
As Cass’s mother thanked him profusely, Hugo disappeared through a side door.
“Madam,” said the waiter, staring in the general direction of Cass’s mother. “If you please—”
The waiter instructed Cass’s mother to put her right hand on his shoulder and Cass to put her right hand on her mother’s shoulder. Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji were supposed to follow suit.
“Now follow me, please. And if you need to stop, say so. We don’t want any collisions.”
The waiter led them past the velvet curtain into a long hallway. At first, the hallway was dimly lit from the outside—but there was little to see. Only bare, gray walls. And a thick, dark carpet.
Then Max-Ernest, the last of their party, walked in and the curtains closed behind him.
Suddenly, it was pitch-black.
“What happened? It’s so dark!” whispered Max-Ernest.
“It’s supposed to be,” said Cass. “Just keep walking.”
“Yeah, but it’s really dark. I can’t see anything. Not even my hand.”
“You should have practiced like me,” said Cass. “I always spend at least one hour a week blindfolded. Just in case I ever get stuck in a cave and my flashlight goes out.” (This was a slight exaggeration, but it was true she’d tried walking around her room with a blindfold a few times.)
“If you would all be quiet for a moment,” said the waiter calmly, “I am now opening the door to the main dining room.”
They could tell right away that they’d entered a much larger space. The air felt cooler and lighter. And there was more of an echo.
Other diners had already been seated and their disembodied voices came seemingly from all directions.
“Oops—I hope that was just water!”
“… I’m not sure, I think it’s fish.”
“Ouch—you hit my nose!”
“Don’t try to seat yourselves or you may wind up on top of somebody else,” the waiter warned when they reached their table.
The kids snickered.
“The theme tonight is chocolate,” he continued, leading them to their chairs one by one. “Almost every dish, whether savory or sweet, contains at least a small amount of cacao. Except for Max-Ernest, who will be served an alternate menu.”
“How did you know?” asked Max-Ernest, relieved.
“I believe your friend mentioned you would go into anaphylactic shock otherwise,” said the waiter dryly.
He said there was an amuse bouche waiting in front of each of them, and after explaining what that was (of course, you already know), he quietly departed.
Feeling around their table, our friends ascertained that it was fully set with plates, utensils, glasses—and a few other items that were harder to identify.
“Hey, Cass, can you tell what’s in this? Is it my amuse bouche?”
After a couple tries, Max-Ernest managed to hand Cass a small bowl. She reached in—
“Little… balls… Ugh, they’re mushy and slimy and cold.”
Yo-Yoji laughed. “It’s like a haunted house—you know like when they put your hand in a bowl of olives and tell you they’re eyeballs?”
Cass tentatively licked a finger. “Actually, it’s just butter.”
Exploring further, Cass discovered a warm round object on a small plate: “A roll! I think everyone’s got one.”
But when she tried to butter hers:
“Ow—you stabbed my hand!” complained Max-Ernest.
“Sorry.”
“The amuses are on our plates right in front of us,” said Cass’s mother. “Oh, it’s delicious! But don’t take little bites—eat it all at once.”
“Too late. Mine’s dribbling all over my chin,” said Yo-Yoji.
Max-Ernest gingerly prodded his amuse bouche with a spoon. It was soft and wet and round and jiggly and felt like a large egg yolk.
Trying to be brave, he put the whole thing in his mouth and bit down—
It squirted in all directions and he was hit with blast after blast of flavor. Like different colors of fireworks exploding one after another. First came a warm and mellow taste. Could it be… pancakes? Then came the cooler and juicier taste of… blueberries? Yes, blueberry pancakes. At the end, his senses were doused with maple syrup.
“Hey, did anybody else’s taste like breakfast?” asked Yo-Yoji. “I think mine was bacon and eggs. And hot chocolate.”
“Funny, mine tasted like a frittata with smoked salmon and caviar,” said Cass’s mother.
“Which just happens to be your favorite breakfast,” said Cass in a slightly accusatory tone. “Just like my favorite happens to be waffles with mint-chip ice cream. Which is what mine was. Wow, what a coincidence, Mel!”
She’d loved her amuse bouche and she knew she should think it was sweet that her mother had special-ordered the food, but Cass couldn’t help it: she hated the thought of her mother conspiring with Señor Hugo.
“I wish you wouldn’t call me that,” said her mother.
“What—you mean Mel? Why? It’s your name, isn’t it?”
Before her mother could reply, the waiter arrived with their first course: soup.
In tiny, thimble-like glasses.
Everyone sipped at the same time, but no two soups were the same. Or was it that no two sets of taste buds were the same? Each soup tasted like a well-known food item, distilled to its very essence:
“Popcorn!” (Max-Ernest)
“Pop-Tart!” (Yo-Yoji)
“Peanut butter and jelly!” (Cass)
“Potato chips!” (her mom)
All except Max-Ernest’s had the barest hint of chocolate.
As the meal continued, the dishes became increasingly elaborate—and increasingly difficult to identify. But according to the waiter (who was only willing to name a dish after it had been tasted) they included: salad with cacao vinaigrette; scallops in a dark chocolate reduction; pinto beans spiced with chipotle-cocoa powder; a pork roast with an apricot-chocolate glaze; and, of course, chicken in mole poblano, the famous Mexican sauce made from nuts, dried chilies, and a healthy portion of Mexican chocolate.
Each new dish was harder to cut/spear/scoop than the last, and it didn’t take long for the impatient eaters to give up on their forks and knives and start using their hands.
“It’s a good thing Mrs. Johnson isn’t here,” said Max-Ernest. “She wouldn’t think we were using good table manners.” (He was referring to their school principal, who was a stickler for manners; the “Principal With Principles,” she called herself.)
“I’d like to see her try to eat here!” said Yo-Yoji.
“Well, I hope you don’t abandon manners altogether,” said Cass’s mom. “Your principal may not be here but somebody’s mother is.”
She sighed contentedly in the darkness. “You know, I think this may be the best meal I’ve ever had. Hugo is a genius. I could eat his food every day.”
“Well, why don’t you marry him, then?” asked Cass, unable to bear another positive word about Señor Hugo.
“That’s ridiculous—I hardly know him!” Her mother sounded flustered. “But you make it sound like a death sentence. Would it really be so awful?”
“Yeah, pretty much.”
“You know, one day I may actually want to get married, whether to Hugo or someone else,” said Cass’s mother stiffly. “And when I do, Cassandra, I hope you open your heart a little bit and don’t hide your feelings behind cheap sarcasm.”
The s-word. Cass hated it when her mom complained about her sarcasm.
“Why should I have any feelings about it?” she shot back. “You’re not my real mom anyway… technically.”
Cass bit her lip. Why had she said that? She knew how much it would upset her mother.
There was silence for a moment.
“Cass, because your friends are here, I’m not going to respond to that right now,” her mother said finally. “We’ll talk about it later, OK?”
“OK.”
Cass could feel her ears reddening in the dark.
A few minutes later, their waiter stepped up to the table again.
“Hello, Cassandra. If you don’t mind, I’m going to reach over you so I can put this plate in front of you. It’s a quadruple fudge layer cake, compliments of the chef. He calls it Chocolate Death.”
Max-Ernest coughed up the water he was drinking. “That’s exactly how I always thought I would die!”
“Uh, thanks,” said Cass. “I think.”
“My pleasure,” murmured the waiter, and he disappeared without another word.
“So—what do you think they do when it’s somebody’s birthday?” asked Yo-Yoji. “No candles, right?”
“They probably just sing,” said Max-Ernest quite sensibly.
“Seriously, aren’t you guys curious to see what would happen if you lit a candle in here?” Yo-Yoji persisted.
Cass giggled, then felt in her backpack. “Actually, I have one. And matches…”
“Cool. Let’s light it, yo!” whispered Yo-Yoji, excited.
Max-Ernest tensed. “We can’t, it’s not right—”
“Ah, come on—don’t you just want to see for a second? The waiters will never know—they’re blind.”
Cass turned to her right. She was certain her mother would say No. At the same time, her mother loved birthday candles. On Cass’s last birthday, she made Cass blow her candles out three times, so Cass would get three wishes.
“Mel, what do you think?”
There was no response.
Was she getting the silent treatment? Cass wondered.
“Sorry about what I said before,” she said softly. “I understand if you’re mad but… can’t you at least say something?”
Silence.
“Mel, are you there?” she asked more loudly. “It’s not funny.” She felt the chair next to her. It was empty. How strange.
Had her mother been so upset that she had to leave the room?
“Hey, you guys, where’s my mom? Did she go to the bathroom?”
“Wouldn’t she have to ask the waiter? I mean, unless she tried to go by herself,” said Max-Ernest. “But then she probably would have bumped into something or—”
Before he could finish his thought, Cass lit a match, her hand trembling. Suddenly illuminated, Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji looked back at her in blinking astonishment.
“Whoa, look what a mess we made!” said Yo-Yoji.
He pointed at Cass. “There’s sauce all over your shirt.” Then he pointed at Max-Ernest. “And your face is like totally covered.”
“Where’s my mom?” Cass repeated.
Her friends looked around: not only was Cass’s mother’s chair empty, so was the rest of the room.
They were the only ones there.

CHAPTER EIGHT
The Opposite of OK

The match flickered out.
But not before the commotion had drawn the attention of their waiter. They could hear him running toward their table.
“Can I help you with something?”
“Yeah, where’s my mother?” Cass demanded. “And what about everybody else—?”
The waiter said he had no more idea where Cass’s mother was than they did. He was certain she wasn’t in the bathroom; he had just finished cleaning it. As for the other customers being gone, that was no mystery; they’d finished dinner and gone home, naturally.
“I’m sure your mother is fine—she probably needed some air. Although if a customer can’t be bothered to ask for help, we really can’t be held responsible… Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’ll just go get the check…”
He scurried out without waiting for a response.
“The check? How are we going to pay if your mom doesn’t come back?” asked Max-Ernest, distressed. “Do you think they’ll make us wash dishes?”
“Forget the check—we have to find her!” Cass stood up, reaching into her backpack. “Come on—”
Quickly, she struck another match, and with this one lit a candle.
From what they could see, the restaurant looked much like any other. With the distinction that there were no windows. Nor were there any pictures on the walls. Nor any color or decoration whatsoever. It could almost have been the dining hall in a prison.
“How did they clean up so fast?”
Yo-Yoji gestured toward the tables spread out around the room. They were immaculate. Place settings gleamed. Folded napkins stood at attention. It looked as though the restaurant were just about to open. You’d never guess that minutes ago it had been full of diners.
In contrast, their own table was covered with food and spilled drinks.
Cass’s face turned angry in the candlelight. “I know where my mom is—the kitchen!”
She pointed to the double doors at the far end of the room.
“I’ll bet she went to talk to Hugo. She’s so in love, she couldn’t wait to tell him how good dinner was…”
The double doors turned out to be double-double; that is, behind them was another pair of double doors.
As soon as Cass pushed through this second pair of doors, they were blinded by light. Compared to the darkness of the dining room, the kitchen seemed as bright as a hospital.
As their eyes adjusted our three friends turned pale:
A man in a chef’s coat held a cleaver high in the air.
As they watched, he brought it down and chopped—
a carrot.
The three kids exhaled in relief.
“Who’s there?” he asked spinning around, knife in hand.
It wasn’t Hugo; it was his sous-chef.* But evidently, he too was blind.
“We’re customers,” said Cass. “Have you seen my mom? I mean—did anybody else come in here?”
The sous-chef shook his head sternly. “No. And this room is strictly off limits,” he growled.
“What about Hugo? Where is he?” Cass persisted.
“Gone for the night. As you should be.” He chopped another carrot for emphasis.
Yo-Yoji silently motioned to his friends: Let’s get out of here.
“Why do you think the kitchen is so lit up if all the chefs are blind?” whispered Max-Ernest as they headed back into the dining room.
“Beats me—the whole place is creepy,” said Yo-Yoji.
Cass didn’t say anything—just hurried forward holding the candle in front of her.
They found the entry room deserted. Even the scent bouquets were gone.
“Do you think she left with him?” asked Yo-Yoji. “Would your mom do that?”
“I dunno,” said Cass, growing increasingly distressed. “It’s so weird.”
The waiter came out of the hallway looking harried.
“Cassandra? Is that you?”
“Yeah, we’re right here. Did you find my mom?”
“I just spoke to Señor Hugo. He said not to worry about the bill—it’s on the house. And he left you this—”
The waiter held out an envelope, which Cass anxiously accepted.
“Good-bye, we have to close up now,” he said, ushering them toward the front door. “I hope you enjoyed your dinner.”
The blind waiter bowed and walked quickly back in the direction of the main dining room.
As soon as they got outside, Cass tore open the envelope. There was a handwritten note inside.
“What does it say?” asked Max-Ernest.
“Is it from your mom?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Not really,” said Cass after a moment, shoving the note in her pocket. “I mean, yeah, it’s from her, but she says the dark was making her too nervous and she went home.”
“Really? Without saying good-bye?” asked Max-Ernest, surprised. “How are we supposed to get back?”
“Uh, bus. She said to take the bus.…”
Max-Ernest looked at his friend. “Why are you acting so weird?”
“I just… realized I don’t have any bus money,” Cass stammered.
“Well, I do. So we’re cool,” said Yo-Yoji. “But you sure everything’s OK?”
“Totally,” said Cass, forcing a smile. “Why wouldn’t it be?”
But it wasn’t OK. It was the opposite of OK.
Although Cass didn’t share the note in her pocket with her friends, I will share it with you here. I believe it’s too late now for it to make any difference. The penmanship, I think you’ll agree, is remarkably neat for somebody who couldn’t see:

Cassandra—
If you value your mother’s life, bring me the Tuning Fork in two days’ time. Tell no one—not even those two boys with you. If I learn that you have shared this note with anyone, the deal is off and you will never see your mother again.
H.

PART TWO
MAIN COURSE

CHAPTER NINE
HOME ALONE

By the time Cass got home, it was very late.
After bidding a hasty good night to her friends, she lingered on her doorstep, reluctant to face her empty house. If she never entered, she could maintain hope that her mother was inside.
You’re not my real mom anyway.
Those were virtually the last words she’d said to her mother. What if she never had a chance to unsay them?
What if she never saw her mother again?
Quietly, she started to cry, shedding the tears she’d had to hold back in front of Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji.
Stop that! she chided herself. Crying isn’t going to help anything. You are not a little kid. You are a survivalist. You are trained to tackle emergencies. Treat this situation as you would any other disaster. A kidnapping is nothing compared to a tsunami or a tornado.
With tremendous effort, she wiped her eyes and made herself focus on the task at hand: finding the Tuning Fork.
She knew what her first step should be: reading the Tuning Fork file in the Terces Society archives. But should she go now or wait for daylight?
She held her key in the door lock, debating the question.
On the one hand, she had very little time to save her mother. What had the note said? Two days?
On the other hand, Cass had to admit, she was very sleepy. And she knew from all of her survivalist training that she would not be very effective in her mission without sufficient rest. Serious sleep deprivation could impair her mental functions as well as her ability to handle stress. It could also affect her emotions and her immune system. If she went for too many days without sleep, she might even start to hallucinate.
Not to mention: if she got caught by Pietro or Mr. Wallace, how would she explain being in the archives in the middle of the night?
Perhaps she should go to bed after all, she thought, turning the key.
It was the first time Cass had spent the entire night alone in an empty house, and she checked and rechecked every room, making sure all her alarm systems were in place:

the glass vase situated so it would crash to the floor if the front door opened

the crunchy pile of cereal in the hallway leading to her bedroom so she would hear footsteps before they reached her

the rubber bands wrapped around her bedroom window locks so they would snap if the windows opened

and a few other smaller and more secretive security measures.

Unfortunately, under the circumstances, she still did not feel very secure.
She lay on her bed with her shoes on, afraid even to get under the covers; her blankets might slow her jumping out of bed. Unable to sleep, her mind racing, she counted the minutes until—finally—it was morning.
Cass was almost out the door and on the way to the Terces Society archives before she realized that she hadn’t brushed her teeth and that she was wearing her T-shirt inside out. Her teeth could wait. But she decided she had to put on her shirt properly. If Mr. Wallace or Pietro saw her looking so untidy they might wonder whether something was wrong.
By the time she was ready to leave again, there was a knock on the front door.
She got a lump in her throat: could it be her mother? Had Señor Hugo had a change of heart? Or was the evil chef here to collect the Tuning Fork ahead of schedule?
As she tried to decide whether or not to open the door, the knocking grew louder and more insistent:
“Cass, open up!” “Time for homework, yo.”
Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji. She’d forgotten that they’d rescheduled their “homework” session for that morning.
For a second, Cass’s heart lifted. Her friends were here! They would help her through this awful time. Together, the three of them would save her mother just as they’d accomplished so many dangerous feats before.
Then Cass remembered Hugo’s note and her heart sank. She couldn’t tell them what was happening. Hugo had made that clear. Cass knew her silence was a betrayal of sorts. Max-Ernest especially considered himself her partner. As far as he was concerned, he and Cass shared everything; they had no secrets from each other. But, Cass told herself, as hard it was, this mission was hers and hers alone.
How was she going to get rid of them?
Trying to look normal—but was it more normal for her to smile or look annoyed?—she opened the door.
“Surprise!” said Max-Ernest. “I mean, not really, but—”
“Hey, guys,” said Cass carefully, not moving from the doorway. “Sorry, you can’t stay. My mom, um, had to leave early for work. And now I’m supposed to… go to my grandfathers’.”
“But it’s Sunday,” said Max-Ernest. “Why’s she going to work?”
“I dunno, she… had a meeting.”
Max-Ernest studied Cass. “Did you guys have a fight—’cause of what you said to her? You know, about her not being your real mom. Is that why she left last night?”
Cass looked back at him, trying not to let her alarm show. Or even to blink. Max-Ernest’s astuteness had caught her off guard.
“Um…”
As painful as it was to think about, she had to admit his story was more plausible than hers. She decided to go with it.
“Yeah,” she said with unfeigned discomfort. “That’s pretty much what happened. We had a fight this morning and she went to go shopping or something.”
“Well, can’t we come in anyway?” asked Yo-Yoji. “Now we don’t even have to pretend we’re doing homework for school. And we have to start researching the Tuning Fork sometime…”
Cass debated in her head again:
On the one hand, Hugo’s note had been very clear about not telling them what was happening.
On the other hand, how would it hurt for them to know where she was going? After all, they were supposed to be looking for the Tuning Fork. They didn’t have to know she was looking for it for Hugo, rather than for Pietro.
“Actually, I was on my way to the circus,” she said finally. “To read about the Tuning Fork in the archives.”
“Without us?” asked Max-Ernest. “You weren’t going to wait?”
“I know it’s kind of silly, but I thought maybe I would find out something first, then surprise you guys with it.”
“Oh,” said Max-Ernest, who didn’t look quite satisfied with her answer.
“Well, now that the surprise is ruined, we’ll come with you!” said Yo-Yoji.
“Um, OK…,” Cass said hesitantly, unable to think of a good reason to say No.
“Here, your mom forgot this—” said Max-Ernest, picking up a newspaper off the front stoop. “You know, you’re not supposed to leave stuff outside because then burglars think nobody’s home—”
Annoyed with herself for the oversight, Cass took the paper from Max-Ernest. She was really going to have to think ahead, she realized, if she didn’t want anybody to figure out that her mom was missing.
“Hey, what’s that on the paper?” asked Yo-Yoji.
Cass eyed the newspaper in her hand: “Ugh—!”
Apparently, a dog had relieved himself on top of it.
Max-Ernest laughed. “Don’t worry—it’s plastic. I got it from the clowns.”
Cass forced a smile. “Ha! That’s really funny!”
Max-Ernest looked at her strangely. “Now I know something is wrong! You never think I’m funny. Least not when I’m trying to be…”
Cass hid her face as she locked the door behind her.
Having friends who knew you well was supposed to be comforting, but right now it only made her more uneasy.

CHAPTER TEN
CACA BOY

Clearly, carnies were not morning people. When Cass and her friends arrived, the circus was so quiet it could have been the middle of the night.
Through a trailer window they saw Mickey and Morrie playing checkers with some locals—no doubt the clowns were cheating the “rubes” out of their hard-earned money—but from the looks of it, the clowns hadn’t woken up; they’d never gone to sleep.
The only noise came from the Big Top. As they approached, they heard a man shouting inside. “Come on, you big stubborn cat—are you a lion or a mule? You think you don’t want to jump now—what are you going to do when this hoop is on fire?!”
“I didn’t know there were still lions in this circus,” said Max-Ernest nervously. “I thought they were all gone.”
When they peeked inside they saw an old man in a tattered satin suit holding a long tent rope in his hand. The kids recognized him as the “The Amazing Alfred, King of the King of Beasts.”
“Welcome, children. Don’t be frightened—I promise you, this fierce animal is totally under my control!”
He waved his rope in the air, attempting to crack it like a whip.
Years ago, they’d been told, Alfred had been a great lion tamer. Rather than a lion, however, the only beast in the tent this morning was a bored house cat, currently licking his paws and not paying Alfred the least bit of attention.
A bright pink hula hoop was positioned in the center of the ring, but the cat wouldn’t even look at it.
“Of course, there’s a simple rule about what to do if you run into a lion—whether you’re at the circus or in the African savanna,” Alfred continued. “Would you like to hear it?”
“Sure, Alfred—sorry, I mean, Mr. Amazing,” said Max-Ernest, who was feeling it was just as well they weren’t facing a real lion at the moment. Or a real whip.
“First of all, never run—that triggers their predatory instincts. Instead, spread your arms out so you look like a big animal who’s too much trouble to kill.” Alfred demonstrated—tearing his old suit as he did so.
“That’s just like with a bear,” said Cass impatiently. Although she’d never faced a bear in real life, she regularly included bear attacks as part of her survivalist training. “Now can we go?” she whispered to her friends.
“Precisely!” declared the lion tamer with a crack of his whip. “Why don’t you try it on that bear there—?”
The lion tamer pointed to the side of the tent where a rather heavy and hirsute (which you may recognize as a polite way of saying fat and hairy) woman was now standing with her arms folded. This was Myrtle, the circus’s bearded lady.
“Alfred!” Myrtle scolded. “What are you doing with that poor kitten? Kids, what are you doing here so early? Pietro didn’t say anything…”
“They’re here to keep me company,” said Yo-Yoji quickly. “You know Lily. She likes me to start practicing before the sun comes out.”
Myrtle snorted. “You won’t have any fingers left by the time that woman gets done with you!”
“Oh great!” Cass moaned a moment later.
She hadn’t anticipated the CAT FOOD trailer being padlocked. But right there, hanging from the door handle, was a large combination lock. Compared to other devices employed by the Terces Society it looked crude, but no doubt it was effective in keeping out intruders. The one exceptional feature of the lock was that there were letters rather than numbers on its face.
“Chill,” said Yo-Yoji. “We can always find Pietro or Mr. Wallace to let us in.”
“No, no, we can’t because…,” Cass stammered. How to explain that they were the last people she wanted to see right now? She was hoping desperately not to run into them.
“Don’t worry,” said Max-Ernest. “I know where Pietro keeps the riddle.”
“What riddle?” asked Cass.
“The one that tells you what the new combination is every day.”
“Oh,” she said, relieved that he knew about the combination but also a bit peeved that she hadn’t been privy to this information.
Max-Ernest returned with a slip of paper pulled out from under an abandoned cotton candy machine.
“‘What do you call a lion bite that doesn’t hurt?’” he read.
“A LION LICK?” Yo-Yoji offered.
“A LION KISS?” guessed Cass.
Max-Ernest shook his head in disgust. “No. Those are totally wrong. The answer has to be more… you know, like a pun.”
“How about LION GUM?” asked Cass. “Like all you’re getting is his gums, not teeth? That’s a pun. Sort of.”
Max-Ernest shook his head again. “You guys are hopeless. It’s so obvious.”
“Oh, yeah—then what is it?”
“Easy. CATNIP. A lion is a kind of cat—that’s why it says CAT FOOD on the trailer. That’s probably where Pietro got the idea. And a nip is like a little bite that doesn’t hurt. But it’s a pun because catnip is also that stuff that makes cats go crazy. How ’bout that?”
“Pretty good, but I’ll save my applause until I see you open the door,” said Cass.
“Yeah, man, we still don’t know if you’re right,” said Yo-Yoji.
But of course Max-Ernest was right. And the door opened with ease.
The Terces Society archives were notoriously esoteric and equally extensive, going back many generations.
Inside the trailer, file boxes were stacked to the ceiling. The space was crammed tighter than Cass’s grandfathers’ antiques store. But here everything was in order, nothing out of place.
Every box, every file, every photo, every scrap of paper had been meticulously labeled by Mr. Wallace:

Dogs, Talking
Dogs, Telekinetic
Dogs, Two-headed

Underwater Cities: Atlantis and Others

The Emerald Tablet: Stories, Legends, Facts

Ceiling Walkers of India 1850-1917

Weevils and: 
Brain Implantation
Medieval Dentistry
Prehistoric Eating Habits

Philosopher's Stone: Earlierst mentions of 

Pygmies A-Z

Cass found the Tuning Fork file wedged between Tunes, Celtic and Tunnels, Rumored Under Pyramids.
Unfortunately, she discovered, there wasn’t much in it. Just the drawing of the Tuning Fork that Mr. Wallace had shown them and a long hand-written manuscript on yellowed paper. The manuscript was in Spanish, but there was an English translation attached.
While Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest looked through other file boxes to see if they could find anything else that would be helpful in their quest, Cass sat down on the speckled linoleum floor and started reading aloud:

25 October, 1597
I write this journal sitting on a beach, I know not where.
New World or Old World or some Other World altogether.
After six weeks at sea, I have washed ashore on a desert island and I am alone but for the lizards and my thoughts.
Next to me is the fatal object that caused a great ship to sink. Yes, that small silver tool lying there so innocently on the sand killed the crew of the Santa Xxxxx as surely as if it stabbed each sailor in the back—and yet it never so much as touched their fingers.
Myself, I am the only survivor.

My story begins on another island, Teotihuacan, grand capital of the Aztec people. The island city that rises out of the Lake of the Moon.
In Teotihuacan, there lived a boy of twelve or thirteen or so. The son of farmers, he worked in the royal granary, and every day he carted baskets of food and grain to the palace of the great emperor, Moctezuma.
He was known as Caca Boy—a name that thankfully does not have the same meaning in the Aztec language that it has in ours!—because he carried so many of the seeds the Aztecs call the cacahuatal.
You cannot imagine the importance the Aztec people place on this shriveled little seed. It is the coin of the realm. They trade the seeds for all manner of goods just as if the seeds were bits of gold.
But it is the strange brown drink they make from the cacahuatal seeds that gives the seeds their true value. This is a frothy and spicy concoction that is quite delicious when sweetened. I would go so far as to say it is addictive. Soon, I predict, it will be all the rage in Europe.
The Aztecs call the drink chocolatl.*
Moctezuma had millions and millions of cacahuatal seeds stored in enormous bins of straw and clay. To scoop up the seeds, Caca Boy climbed inside the bins, sometimes sinking all the way to his chin. He spent so much time surrounded by the seeds that his skin was stained a dark brown, and his hair, his very pores, his whole body, stank of cacahuatal.
This would not have been so terrible, for he loved the smell, save for one thing: sadly, he had never tasted chocolatl.
Among the Aztecs, the drinking of chocolatl is restricted to the noble classes: royalty, priests, and warriors. Commoners are considered unfit for such a luxurious elixir. At the palace, the rules were even more strict: only the emperor could drink the chocolatl prepared in the royal kitchen.
If Caca Boy took so much as a sip he would be sentenced to death.

Every day, after making his delivery, Caca Boy would linger outside the palace kitchen and torture himself by watching the emperor’s cooks prepare the emperor’s chocolatl.
Cup after cup they made, pouring and re-pouring until the chocolatl was whipped into a delicious froth. There was red chocolatl. White chocolatl. Black chocolatl. They served it with honey. With vanilla. With flowers. All for the emperor. Always in the emperor’s special golden goblets.
One day, instead of frothing the emperor’s chocolatl herself, a cook nervously placed his goblet in front of a mysterious and strangely ageless man in a shimmering robe.
In his gloved hands, the man held a silver fork that ended in two long prongs. While Caca Boy watched, mesmerized, the man carefully lowered the prongs into the emperor’s chocolatl. Then he rubbed his palms together, rolling the handle of the silver fork back and forth, causing the prongs to spin faster and faster until you could barely see them.
Soon, the chocolatl was whipped into the biggest head of foam Caca Boy had ever seen. It grew and grew until there was a frothy white mountain ten times the size of the goblet beneath—and yet the goblet never overflowed onto the table.
The aroma was so strong it nearly threw Caca Boy backward.
Afterward, Caca Boy asked the cook who the man was.
“He is a sorcerer. They say his silver fork will make your food taste like anything in the world so long as it is something you have tasted before—or even that your ancestors tasted before.”
“So if I had the fork, could I turn dirt into chocolatl?” asked Caca Boy, wide-eyed. “My father tasted it once. He said it was like drinking gold.”
“Remember your place, Caca Boy! The drinking of chocolatl is forbidden to your kind,” said the cook sharply.
“Besides,” she added, lowering her voice, “magic like that always comes with a price.”
Caca Boy didn’t see the sorcerer’s silver fork again for three years.
By then, the Spanish had arrived. War had broken out and the city was in chaos.
Even the emperor’s palace was looted. From the shadows by the kitchen, Caca Boy watched the Spaniards carting away the treasures of his civilization like so much trash.
While Caca Boy silently cursed the Spanish, he saw something silver drop out of a soldier’s arms. Caca Boy couldn’t believe his luck. In a flash, he darted into the street and pocketed it. And then he ran.
He knew the emperor’s guards would kill him if they caught him with the silver fork. If he was lucky, he might be sacrificed to Huitzilopochtli.*
The Spanish were even more vicious. If he were caught by the Conquistadors, he would be sacrificed to their greed—and much more quickly.
There was only one place to hide.
He flew down the familiar streets, flung open the doors to the granary, and dove headfirst into one of the giant vats of cacahuatal seeds. He hid there, buried, for hours. Seeds wedged between his toes and even up his nose.
Finally, when he was sure it must be the middle of the night, he stuck his head out. And then he froze. Because he was staring into the eyes of a man. A man equally surprised.
Luckily, this man was neither Aztec warrior nor Spanish Conquistador. He was a man of peace. A Franciscan brother. A monk.
He was I.
I had come in the vain hope of stopping my Spanish kin from looting the food supplies of the Aztecs. I was too late. At the far end of the granary, Spanish soldiers were upending stores of corn. Soon, the cacahuatal seeds would spill as well.
Now my attention was focused on the young boy in front of me. So clearly frightened and alone. Thankfully, I had learned enough of the Aztec tongue to ask why he was hiding and if he needed help.
Before answering, he looked around, measuring his chances. At one end were the Spanish. At the other, the Aztecs. In either direction, peril.
“They will kill me if they find this,” he whispered, showing me the silver fork with obvious reluctance.
The object itself was less remarkable than the images engraved on it. On one prong, there was a long-tailed bird, on the other a twisting snake. I thought I recognized what the images meant and they made me shiver.
Haltingly, Caca Boy told me his story about seeing the sorcerer and then finding the fork years later.
Naturally, I dismissed what he said about the sorcerer’s fork as superstitious nonsense. But I agreed to take it from him if that meant saving his life.
“Wait—”
Quickly, Caca Boy scooped up a handful of cacahuatal seeds. Frowning with concentration, he stirred the seeds with the fork…
As I watched in disbelief, the seeds dissolved into liquid. Foaming chocolatl was now cupped in his hand.
Blissfully, he lapped up the chocolatl, licking every drop off his fingers. At last, Caca Boy had tasted chocolatl! And it was every bit as good, nay, it was better than his father had described.
Eyes glistening, he handed me the silver fork. Then he jumped out of the bin—and ran out of sight.
I never saw Caca Boy again.
It is an awkward position for a poor friar to possess a priceless object with unholy powers.
I wanted nothing to do with the fork. Yet, I did not know how to get rid of it. And so it was still hidden in my robes months later when I found myself searching for passage back to Spain.
We friars must often make our way by begging. Alas, ship captains do not always have a matching generosity of spirit.
May God forgive me, I bargained for my berth on the Santa Xxxxx by giving the captain the silver fork.
At first, the ship’s cook was under strict instructions to use the fork only in preparation of the captain’s meals. But on a ship, secrets never stay secret for long. Word of the captain’s magical feasts spread. And soon he had no choice but to share or face mutiny.
There was no limit to the fork’s powers. With it, the cook turned old gruel into golden broth, and rancid meat into fat roast goose. There were impossibly ripe fruits and glorious sweetmeats. Roasted peacocks and stuffed pigs.
Whatever the crew could remember, the silver fork could cook.
Forbidden to eat such rich food by my vow of poverty, I alone did not partake of the fancy feasts. I lived on stale bread.
Need I say what happened next?
The sailors grew fat and lazy and argumentative. The decks were not swabbed. The brass was not polished. The ship veered off course.
As much as I tried, I could not stop them from gorging.
“More! More!” they cried.
And “Get out of the way, you old monk!”
And other things too rude to repeat.
Soon, the chef was forced to turn hay bales into dinner. Then old sailcloth and seawater. The meals still tasted delicious, but the food no longer fattened the crew—it made them sick. It was food in taste only.
I watched in horror as daily the sailors grew more skeletal. The more they ate the more they starved.
By the time the big storm came, most of the crew were dead. The others had no strength left to fight. Only I had the will to live.
If only I had also had the will to let this cursed fork sink with the ship! What new horrors does it have in store for future generations? I shudder to imagine.
Curate ut Valeatis.
—Fr. Rafael de Leon

CHAPTER ELEVEN
a dry, raspy cough

Still half-lost in the Aztec world, Cass looked up from the monk’s manuscript.
“Do you think the Tuning Fork is really cursed?” she asked.
“I guess it depends on what you mean by cursed,” Max-Ernest responded. He and Yo-Yoji had abandoned the other file boxes long ago and were now sitting across from her. “I mean, anybody can curse anything, right? That doesn’t mean the curse works.”
“Yeah, things like that only happen in old legends and movies and stuff,” agreed Yo-Yoji.
But neither of them sounded very confident. The trouble was, as members of the Terces Society, they’d already seen plenty of things that were only supposed to happen in legends and movies. It wasn’t that long ago, after all, that they’d been having a picnic lunch with a two-foot tall, five-hundred-year-old man born in a bottle. (Oh, and did I mention he was a cannibal?)*
A man’s cough—a dry, raspy cough—made the kids snap to attention. And made the hairs on their neck stand on end.
The worst had already happened, Cass reminded herself. Her mother had been taken from her. She was ready to face anyone, even Señor Hugo.
Slowly, they all looked up.
“Cassandra, Max-Ernest, Yo-Yoji, it’s a little early in the morning for clown camp, isn’t it? Don’t you know a circus never stirs before noon?”
It was Mr. Wallace. The gaunt man lurched over them, blocking them from standing up.
“At your age, you should be sleeping in on a Sunday,” he prattled on. “Me, I couldn’t get to sleep so I decided to get a jump start on my day. Then again, I hardly fit in in the circus, do I?”
“Us… too,” Cass stammered. “I mean, we don’t fit in—I mean, we got up early.”
“Hard to get your story straight sometimes, isn’t it?” Mr. Wallace queried.
Mr. Wallace was the oldest member of the Terces Society—not necessarily in age (Cass wasn’t sure but she thought Pietro was older) but in the sense that he had been part of the society longest. According to Pietro, Mr. Wallace knew more about the history of the Secret, and more about the Midnight Sun, than any other living person. (At least more than anyone outside of the Midnight Sun. And to what extent the Masters were considered living was open to debate.) And yet, for some reason, Cass had never trusted Mr. Wallace. And she’d never felt that he trusted her.
Mr. Wallace peered over her shoulder. “Ah, the memoirs of the monk, Rafael de Leon. A most vivid account, don’t you think? I’m glad you’re following your orders so assiduously.”
“My orders?” Cass’s heart skipped a beat. How could he know about Hugo’s note? Unless…
“From Pietro. To investigate the Tuning Fork.”
“Oh… right.”
Relieved, Cass stood up, gripping the Tuning Fork file tight in her hand.
She tried to sound casual: “So where do you think it could be, anyway?”
“The Tuning Fork? No idea. If I had, I’d be rich. Or dead.” Mr. Wallace leaned in toward the kids. “But between you and me, I’ve always had a hunch it’s somewhere close…”
The way Mr. Wallace said close, it almost seemed the word meant something sinister—as if the Tuning Fork might be haunting them at the very moment.
“You mean near… here?” asked Yo-Yoji.
Mr. Wallace nodded, taking the file from Cass’s hand without asking. “We know the fork made its way to Europe with Brother Rafael. And from what I can tell, it crossed the Atlantic again a hundred years later. Possibly on the Mayflower. Or soon thereafter.”
He put the file back in its drawer, which he closed, Cass noticed, with an air of finality. They wouldn’t be opening it again anytime soon.
“You mean like with the Puritans?” asked Max-Ernest.
Mr. Wallace shrugged. “Of course this is all speculation… but did you know that along with all the Puritans, there were also witches banished to the New World?”
“So you think a… witch had it?” Cass could hardly believe they were using the word seriously. But over the past couple years, she’d learned not to discount anything—even the supernatural.
“Well, a woman believed to be a witch anyway.” Mr. Wallace smiled—an occurrence so rare as to be nearly supernatural in itself. “All those stories about witches feeding children candy have to come from somewhere, don’t they? And I did read a report once about a witch named Clara who was famous for her frothy cups of hot chocolate…”
“And now…?”
“Who knows? The Tuning Fork is probably lying around in some garage or junk shop somewhere.”
“A junk shop?” Cass repeated in surprise.
Mr. Wallace nodded. “People probably assume it’s just a normal musical tuning fork. Or have no idea what it is at all.”
A junk shop.
That meant one thing to Cass: her grandfathers. The Fire Sale was the biggest junk shop in the neighborhood.
Was it possible they would find the Tuning Fork there?

CHAPTER TWELVE
Boxes Redux

A short time later, Cass and her friends stood with her grandfathers Larry and Wayne outside the old redbrick fire station. In the driveway was Grandpa Wayne’s decrepit old pickup truck, piled high with all sorts of junk. It looked as if Cass’s grandfathers were moving out.
“I think you’re a little confused, Cass,” said Grandpa Larry, chuckling. “Tuning forks aren’t really forks. They’re not for cooking or eating.”
“Well, I suppose you could cook with a tuning fork,” said Grandpa Wayne. “Maybe as a fork when you’re carving meat. Or as a skewer. I sort of like that idea—you could make double shish kebabs!”
“No you couldn’t,” Larry responded. “The ends of a tuning fork are much too blunt.”
“Well, then, you file them down, of course!”
“Never mind about that,” Cass repeated. “Please—”
“Patience, Cass,” said Larry. “Can’t your grandfathers have a little intellectual debate now and then?”
“It’s just—we were wondering whether you might have any old tuning forks lying around? It’s for a school report we’re doing… well, an over-the-summer report for school.” She stumbled but recovered. “For next year.”
“Homework in summer? That’s terrible,” said Grandpa Larry. “It’s an oxymoron!”*
“An outrage,” agreed Grandpa Wayne. “We can’t support it.”
“I know, I agree, but please,” said Cass. “It would be really helpful.”
Larry surveyed the pile of junk in the truck, then looked in the window of their store. “Wayne, where’s that old orange crate? You remember—with that dulcimer I made in Woodstock. Isn’t there a tuning fork in there?”
“Oh, right, that’s—that’s against the back wall, isn’t it? Left-hand side next to the washroom?” Wayne gestured inside the store. “By the fire hose.”
“Orange crate. Back wall. Fire hose. Got that, guys?” asked Grandpa Larry. The kids nodded.
“Come on, Larry, we got to scoot,” said Grandpa Wayne, hopping into the driver’s seat of his truck.
“You bet we do!” Grandpa Larry grinned, climbing into the passenger seat of the truck. “This is the most exciting day of our lives. Antiques Caravanhas come to town. With all our stuff we’re going to be the stars of the show.”
“You be the star. No way you’re getting me on TV,” grumbled Wayne.
“You won’t care when you hear how much money we can get for this telephone! Everything from the 1970s is huge right now!”
Larry held up the phone for Cass and her friends to see. It was shaped like a pair of lips. Big red lips.
“Don’t forget to feed Sebastian,” Wayne called out the truck window.
“And tell your mom to watch us on Antiques Caravan, Cass,” called Larry. “They’re broadcasting live!”
The truck lurched into gear and sputtered away in a cloud of smoke.
The left-hand side of the back wall next to the washroom happened to be the very most crowded section of the store. Here boxes were piled three and four deep, all the way to the ceiling. (Cass hadn’t yet tackled this section in her baby box search; she’d been hoping to find her box without having to touch it.)
“OK, if you guys want to be here, you have to help. That means really help, Max-Ernest,” said Cass. “The only way we’re going to find that orange crate is by taking down all those boxes so we can see what’s behind.”
Max-Ernest applied himself a little more diligently this time. Even so, the work was slow and difficult, and after an hour they’d moved fewer than a quarter of the boxes out of the way.
Sebastian was lying nearby on the old beach towel known as his “magic carpet” (because Larry and Wayne used it to lift the dog and “fly” him around the room). As Cass dropped what seemed like the hundredth box of opera records onto the floor, he kept nudging her leg and barking.
“Shh. Just let me find this crate, Sebastian. I need it to save my mom. She was kidnapped,” Cass whispered, grateful to be able to confide in somebody, even a dog.
She petted his head repeatedly, but Sebastian, who tended to bark very loudly because he was very nearly deaf, only barked louder.
Cass was about to go hunt for some dog food when she realized he was barking in the direction of the old fire hose Wayne had mentioned. It was coiled around a big iron wheel.
Wedged behind the wheel was a box Cass hadn’t noticed earlier. Was this the cause of Sebastian’s barking?
Growing excited, Cass pulled out the box. It was cardboard and about the size of a case of soda pop. It looked banged-up, as if it had been in her grandfather’s store for quite a while.
Cass sighed, disappointed. One thing was certain: it wasn’t an orange crate. Why had Sebastian steered her so wrong?
She was about to push the box aside with the others when she noticed a quarter-size hole cut into the cardboard. And the words HANDLE WITH CARE written in black marker.
Could it be…?
She looked over at her friends—they were both absorbed in what they were doing—and then she nervously peeled back the layers of masking tape that kept the box closed.
The box was empty, save for a single piece of paper.

BABY GIRL—7 LBS, 3 OZ
TIME OF BIRTH—6:35 PM

According to the story her grandfathers had told her, those were the only words written on the piece of paper that had been taped to her chest. Yet here she found a long letter written below them.

DEAR LARRY AND WAYNE:
YOU ARE THE MESSIEST, MOST DISORGANIZED, MOST FRUSTRATING CLIENTS I HAVE EVER HAD THE DISPLEASURE OF WORKING FOR IN MY ENTIRE CAREER AS AN ACCOUNTANT. HOWEVER, I DO NOT KNOW WHO ELSE TO TURN TO. DESPITE THE DISARRAY IN WHICH YOU LIVE, YOU HAVE GOOD HEARTS AND YOU KNOW MANY PEOPLE. I AM SURE YOU WILL FIND A GOOD HOME FOR THIS BABY GIRL. IT IS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT THAT NOBODY KNOW OF MY CONNECTION TO THE CHILD—ESPECIALLY THE CHILD HERSELF. ANY MENTION OF MY NAME WILL PUT HER IN DANGER.

YOUR HUMBLE SERVANT,
WWW III

WWW III.
William Wilton Wallace, the Third.

Mr. Wallace.
It had to be. It couldn’t be a coincidence. Even if there were somebody else with those initials, what were the chances that he would also be an accountant?
Of all the people in the world, it was Mr. Wallace who had left her on her grandfathers’ doorstep!
Cass knew she shouldn’t be surprised. As she’d learned in her hunt for the homunculus, Mr. Cabbage Face, her connections to the Terces Society ran deep. The founder of the Terces Society, the Jester, was her ancestor. Her great-great-great-great-grandfather. Or something like that. She was the Heir of the Jester. Mr. Cabbage Face had told her as much. He could tell by her ears.
And then there was the fact that she had found her birth certificate, the first clue that she wasn’t exactly who she thought she was, in a Terces Society file. Mr. Wallace had claimed never to have seen the birth certificate before, but looking back, she’d been foolish to believe him.
He always seemed to disapprove of her being a member of the Terces Society. He said it was because of her age, but what if it was because of who she was?
Could Mr. Wallace be her father?! No. It was impossible. She refused to believe it. They looked nothing alike. More importantly, their personalities were nothing alike. But it was very likely that he knew who her parents were.
Correction: who her birth parents were. They hadn’t raised her, she reminded herself. Somebody else had.
She stared at the box in front of her, eyes moistening, thinking about how her mother had been there at the firehouse with her grandfathers when she, Cass, then an orphaned baby, was delivered to their doorstep. Just as if her mother had been waiting for her.
As if it had been meant to be.
“What’s that? Did you find the orange crate?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“No, just… nothing.”
Cass quickly pushed the box behind the fire hose.
If she didn’t act fast, she would be orphaned again. That was all that mattered now.

CHAPTER TWELVE, PART TWO
Antiques Caravan

Max-Ernest was the first to spot it. It was teetering at the top of the back row of boxes. An old wooden crate with a picture of an orange shining in the sky like a sun.
Fighting his fear of heights, he climbed up to the orange crate, dislodging more than a few boxes along the way.
“This is it!” Victorious, he passed the crate down to Yo-Yoji.
They had to pry off the lid with a screwdriver, but soon they were pulling things out, making yet another pile on the floor.
At the bottom of the crate, beneath a broken thumb piano and a curiously misshapen string instrument that they guessed was the dulcimer Larry had made, was a gleaming, two-pronged metal object.
“Is that the Tuning Fork?” Cass asked, feeling a tingle of excitement in her ears.
“Well it’s a tuning fork…” Yo-Yoji picked it up, then hit one of the prongs with a small candlestick he found nearby. “Hear that note? That’s an A.” (As Cass and Max-Ernest had memorably learned when they were trying to interpret the song of the Sound Prism, Yo-Yoji had perfect pitch—the musical kind, that is, not the taste-bud version.)
“But, wait—if it works, that means it can’t be the right one. Because the Tuning Fork isn’t really a tuning fork,” Max-Ernest pointed out. “How ’bout that?”
“Oh… right,” said Cass, crushed.
“Besides, it doesn’t look very Aztec,” Max-Ernest added.
Cass sat down on the orange crate, suddenly filled with an overwhelming sense of despair. “This whole thing was stupid—what were the chances my grandfathers would have the tuning fork we were looking for? We just wasted all this time—for nothing.”
Well, not exactly for nothing, she reminded herself. But she would return to that box later.
“What’s the big deal? We’ll find the Tuning Fork,” said Yo-Yoji. “Eventually.”
“Well, realistically, we probably won’t,” said Max-Ernest conversationally. “We don’t even know if the Tuning Fork is still around. For all we know, it could be just a legend, like Pietro said. Or like a myth that’s partly based in fact. Or—”
Cass gritted her teeth. “Thanks, that’s really reassuring, Max-Ernest. You’re a big help.”
“Why is that reassuring?” asked Max-Ernest, confused. “Oh wait, you were being sarcastic, huh?”
Cass was about to respond in a suitably snippy manner but she stopped herself. After all, it was definite progress for Max-Ernest to recognize sarcasm.
The question was: how to convey the urgency of their task without giving her secret away?
“Sorry. I wasn’t supposed to tell you guys this but…” Cass struggled with her conscience: was it OK to fudge the truth in this circumstance? “Well, Pietro said if the Midnight Sun finds the Tuning Fork before we do, then this will be our last mission for the Terces Society—ever!”
“Really? He said that?” asked Max-Ernest.
Cass nodded.
“That sucks!” said Yo-Yoji. “Why would he—?”
“Actually, I think it’s Mr. Wallace’s fault,” Cass elaborated. “You know how he doesn’t think kids should be in the Terces Society? Well, they agreed this would be a test.”
“But we took an oath,” said Max-Ernest. “Can they un-oath us? I thought we were in for life. I mean, unless we talked about the Secret. Or something else we weren’t supposed to talk about—”
Cass grimaced at this reference to secret-spilling. “Well, it’s up to them, isn’t it? They kind of make the rules, don’t they?”
“But the Terces Society is hundreds of years old—”
“Well, it doesn’t matter, anyway—nobody’s going to kick us out because we’re going to hunt down the Tuning Fork as fast as we can,” said Yo-Yoji, determined. “But first we gotta eat. I’m starved.”
“I agree—our blood sugar levels are really low,” said Max-Ernest.
Cass was hardly in the mood for a relaxing lunch, but she had to acknowledge she was hungry, too; Max-Ernest was right about their blood sugar levels. Combing through her grandfathers’ stuff was hard work.
She led her friends upstairs to the old firemen’s galley—now her grandfathers’ kitchen—to see what there was to eat.
“… You’re right, it is Chippendale—that’s the good news…”
Sitting on the kitchen table was an old portable TV—so old it had antennae sticking out of the back. Next to the TV was an equally old VCR—a video cassette recorder left over from the days when film and television shows were recorded on video tape. A blinking red light indicated a recording in progress.
On the television screen, a dapper man in a three-piece suit was talking to a wide-eyed—and rather wide-bodied—young woman. A shiny wooden table stood beside them.
“A piece like this recently sold for $300,000…,” said Dapper Man.
“$300,000?!” repeated Wide Woman.
“Hey, it’s Antiques Caravan!” said Yo-Yoji. “Your grandfathers must have set it to record.”
Cass and Max-Ernest gathered close to watch:
On-screen, Dapper Man nodded. “If you’d left the table as it was, you would be a rich woman. Unfortunately, by restoring the finish you’ve made it totally worthless. No better than a fake.”
“Oh no! I thought I was doing the right thing…” Tears streamed down Wide Woman’s face.
“Look—your grandfathers are in the back.”
Max-Ernest pointed to the corner of the television screen where the two older men—identifiable by their exceptionally long beards—were having what looked like a heated argument with another antiques appraiser. Larry kept shaking his red lips telephone in the air.
“I guess the antiques guy didn’t think the phone was worth very much money,” said Cass.
After a short break for what the show called “a word from our sponsors” Dapper Man was back, now speaking to a woman in a violet pantsuit and matching hat.
Yo-Yoji stared. “Is that who I think it is…? I thought she crawled into a cave or something during the summer…”
Max-Ernest’s jaw dropped. “What’s Mrs. Johnson doing on Antiques Caravan?”
Indeed, Pantsuit Woman was their very own school principal—on television.
“It was my Great-Great-Great-Aunt Clara’s,” Mrs. Johnson was saying proudly. “One of the original New En-gland colonists, and a leading citizen in her time. Best cook in the county. Famous for her candies. She carried the piece with her on the Mayflower. The workmanship is English…”
“That’s weird,” said Max-Ernest. “Didn’t Mr. Wallace say something about the Mayflower and a woman named Clara?”
“Yeah, a witch,” said Yo-Yoji. “How funny would that be if Mrs. Johnson’s aunt was a witch!”
Dapper Man gestured toward a small object that was sitting under a bright light. “I can’t tell what it is exactly—perhaps a ritual object of some kind? What I’m certain about is that it is not English…”
Mrs. Johnson looked at the antiques appraiser with outrage. “Are you doubting that my Aunt Clara came over on the Mayflower?”
“You know what’s really weird—” said Cass, “how much that thing on the table looks like a tuning fork.”
“Most of the design has worn away but it is undoubtedly pre-Columbian—probably Mayan or Aztec,” Dapper Man continued smoothly. “Do you have proof this object is yours? It is illegal to own a pre-Columbian artifact without proper documentation.”
“Proper documentation? What are you accusing me of!? I’ve never been so insulted in all my life!”
Mrs. Johnson grabbed the item in question off the table and stormed out of the television picture frame, leaving the appraiser aghast.
Back at the fire station, Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji were still staring at the television screen, unable to believe the object they’d been looking for was in their principal’s possession.
Cass was already standing up and heading for the round opening in the kitchen floor.
“C’mon, follow me!”
Trying to get the Tuning Fork out of the hands of Mrs. Johnson was only slightly more appealing than cuddling up to a T. rex, but they had no choice.
And there was no time to lose.
Grabbing hold of the brass fire pole, she slid down to the floor below.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
ATTACK OF THE KILLER GNOMES

If you’ve ever run into a teacher outside of school then you know what an alarming experience that can be.
Say your teacher is at the supermarket buying groceries. Awful, right? You don’t want to know what your teacher eats for dinner. Or how about seeing your teacher at the movies on a date? What could be worse than that?
Yes, in theory, we know our teachers are human. But we don’t want to see the evidence up close.
Now imagine that instead of a teacher it is your principal you’re going to be seeing outside of school. In fact, you’re going to visit her house.
That, dear reader, is the terrible task Cass and her friends now undertook.
Their principal’s house was the last of five identical townhouses squashed together on a short block. I say identical but in fact there was no mistaking Mrs. Johnson’s for anybody else’s. While the other four houses had more or less unexceptional grass and shrubbery in their tiny front yards, Mrs. Johnson’s had, well—
Gnomes. Lots of gnomes.
I’ve never understood what possesses normally sane people to decorate their gardens with plaster-cast versions of two-foot-tall fantasy humanoids, but whatever it is it had possessed Mrs. Johnson one hundred times over.
There were short gnomes. Fat gnomes. Skinny gnomes. They had bushy beards and long beards. Pointy hats and floppy hats. Blue jackets and red jackets. Red cheeks and… more red cheeks.
“It looks like a theme park,” said Max-Ernest. “Like we’re on the gnome ride or something.”
“I think they look freakin’ scary,” said Yo-Yoji.
Cass studied the gnomes. They did seem menacing. Like a Lilliputian army.
“Are we going to knock on the door?” asked Max-Ernest.
“No!” Cass answered immediately. “She might answer and what would we do then…? Besides, I’m not sure she’s home anyway. Follow me—”
Cass trudged through the ivy, past the watchful eyes of one hundred gnomes, and made her way to the side of the house.
The path was blocked by an overflowing trash can. She was about to walk around it when—
“Look—!” she whispered. “Can you believe it?”
They all made faces as they inspected their principal’s garbage: it was topped by an unappetizing mix of half-eaten lasagna, used teabags, and soiled newspapers.
“Wait—it’s definitely gross, but what are we looking at?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Mrs. Johnson doesn’t recycle!” said Cass, as if it were the most obvious—and most heinous—crime in the world. “Everything’s mixed together.”
Max-Ernest shook his head: “What happened to ‘green living is clean living’? Isn’t that the motto written above the trash at school?”
“And look at that—” Cass pointed to the last bit of incriminating evidence: the ugly gray contents of an ashtray dumped into a frozen-dinner tin.
Max-Ernest gaped, unable to hide his shock: “Mrs. Johnson smokes?!”
Yo-Yoji motioned his friends forward. “C’mon, the garbage is making me ill.”
A moment later, they were standing outside their principal’s bedroom window.
“We really shouldn’t be doing this,” Max-Ernest muttered. But he peered in all the same.
“How can she sleep in there? It’s so… crowded,” said Cass.
Indeed, every available surface in Mrs. Johnson’s bedroom was covered with figurines and knickknacks. Mostly gnomes. But also a few fairies and witches—including a small fabric witch of the kind you often see in a kitchen, this one hanging from a lamp shade.
And at the foot of Mrs. Johnson’s bed there was a wicker basket containing a St. Bernard puppy curled up in a ball.
“Poor puppy—he has to live with Mrs. Johnson,” said Yo-Yoji.
Cass studied the puppy more closely. “What’s wrong with it? It’s like it’s sleeping with its eyes open. Are you sure it’s… alive?”
“It’s stuffed,” said Max-Ernest. “Like a plushy puppy. Just super realistic. You know, like those fake babies people get when their kids grow up and they want to keep being parents…”
“Hey, I think she’s in the next room,” whispered Yo-Yoji.
As quietly as they could, they all crouched down and made their way to the next window—Mrs. Johnson’s study.
His friends pressed their noses against the glass: they could see Mrs. Johnson in profile, her face lit green by the computer screen in front of her. On the screen was a card game.
“Poker!” said Yo-Yoji. “Our principal is playing poker. Look at her—she’s a full-on gambler.”
Next to Mrs. Johnson, a cigarette rested in an ashtray. She picked it up and took a drag. Smoke curled like dragon’s breath out of her mouth.
While Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest stared in horrified fascination, Cass crept along to the other end of the window.
Here, right on the other side of the glass, sitting on top of a file cabinet, was a small metal object. Cass couldn’t see it in detail—it was half hidden by a stack of paper—but the two prongs were unmistakable.
She turned to her friends: “OK, this is the plan: you two go knock on the door and talk to Mrs. Johnson while I slip in through the window and get the Tuning Fork.”
“That’s stealing!” said Max-Ernest in alarm.
“She doesn’t have proof she owns it, remember? For all anybody knows, it could be ours.”
“It’s still stealing.”
Cass knew Max-Ernest was right; breaking and entering was hardly model behavior. But her mother’s life was on the line.
Unfortunately, she couldn’t tell him that.
Before the kids could debate further, a high-pitched wail sounded and the side of the house was flooded with light.
One of the gnomes was spinning in a circle, his eyes glowing red. Evidently, the fantasy creature hid a very real alarm system.
“Who’s there?! I’m warning you, I have a very vicious dog!”
*    *    *
Two minutes later, the three kids were standing in the doorway facing a furious, sputtering principal.
“Not only do you barge in on my house uninvited—you have the gall to ask me to give up a precious family heirloom? Why on earth should I?”
“Well, that guy said you couldn’t sell it without documentation—so what are you going to do with it? Throw it away?” asked Cass. “And not recycle it just like you don’t recycle anything else,” she couldn’t help adding.
Mrs. Johnson stared at the kids in disbelief. “Have you been… rifling through my… my trash?!”
They shrugged.
“How very, very… dare you!” Mrs. Johnson exclaimed.
“Yeah, and we saw everything in it—everything,” said Yo-Yoji, drawing out the word.
“And we’re going to tell the whole school if you don’t give us the Tuning Fork,” said Cass, immediately catching on.
Max-Ernest nodded. “How ’bout that?”
Mrs. Johnson, still wearing her violet pantsuit, was rapidly turning a matching shade. “I see—and how do you know this trash is mine?”
“Does anybody else live here?” asked Cass. “Are they the ones smoking the cigarettes and getting cancer?”
“It will be your word against mine,” Mrs. Johnson snapped. “Nobody will believe you. You’ll all be expelled!”
Yo-Yoji held up his cell phone. “What if we have pictures?”
Mrs. Johnson recoiled from the image of her un-recycled trash. “You children are horrors.”
“Maybe we’re horrors, but you’re a hypocrite,” said Cass.
“This is blackmail!”
“Hey, Cass…,” Max- Ernest whispered in her ear.
She nodded and he reached into his pocket.
“Mrs. Johnson,” Max-Ernest said, “I think your dog had an accident.”
“What do you mean? What dog?”
“We saw a puppy sleeping by your bed…”
Mrs. Johnson nodded cautiously.
Max-Ernest pointed down to the ground where he had discreetly dropped the piece of molded brown plastic that he’d tricked Cass with earlier. It looked awfully lifelike lying in the dirt.
“But how in the world—?”
Max-Ernest shrugged. “It’s only natural right? That’s what dogs do.”
As the distressed Mrs. Johnson puzzled over how her fake puppy could possibly have defecated on her doorstep, Cass pushed past her and ran inside—
“Where do you think you’re going, young lady?!”
—and then returned with the Tuning Fork tight in her hand.
Mrs. Johnson trembled with rage. “You know what—take the fork. My mother always said it was cursed—and for your sake I hope it is.”
“Great. Thanks,” said Cass, already starting to run down the steps.
“I never want to see it or any of you again!” shouted Mrs. Johnson as the three kids disappeared from her view. “Don’t bother coming back to school as long as I’m principal!”
Blackmail is an ugly word. And I leave it to you to judge whether it applies in this case.
Cass was trying to save her mother’s life. Perhaps that excuses her. Perhaps it doesn’t. I wouldn’t venture to say.
All I know is that against all odds she got hold of the Tuning Fork just as instructed by Señor Hugo. And she would have brought it to his restaurant with time to spare.
Had he not come for her first.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
Cranberry Juice

When Cass entered her house, it was quiet inside. So quiet she heard the ticking of the clock in the entry hall. And the whistle of a train half a mile away.
She’d intended to stay only five minutes—long enough for Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji to get safely out of sight. Then she would leave for Señor Hugo’s restaurant.
She knew immediately that that wouldn’t be necessary.
The vase she’d left by the front door was still intact. None of her alarm systems had been triggered. There was no sign of a break-in whatsoever. But he was here—she could feel it.
She turned the corner and looked into the kitchen—
“Hello, Cassandra.”
Señor Hugo was sitting at the kitchen table, just as comfortably as if he’d been invited. He was turned to face her and Cass could see herself reflected in his dark glasses.
Unaccountably, she was not afraid.
“Hello, Señor Hugo. I have it—what you wanted.”
“I know.”
She did not ask how he knew. She did not even ask how he got into her house.
With surprising calm, she took the Tuning Fork out of her backpack and set it on the table in front of him. The ancient object looked sorely out of place on the yellow Formica.
The blind chef showed no reaction.
“I just put it in front of you. Now, where’s my mom?”
“First, let us make sure it’s real. Fetch me a glass of water.”
Trying not to let her impatience get the better of her, Cass went to the sink and rinsed the milk out of a glass.
“You know, the Tuning Fork is very dangerous,” she said, returning with the glass. “You really shouldn’t use it.”
“Thank you for the warning,” said Hugo with more than a hint of what even Max-Ernest would have recognized as sarcasm. “Now sit down.”
Frowning with concentration, he picked up the Tuning Fork and experimentally dipped it into the water. Then he rolled the handle of the Tuning Fork between his palms, so that the prongs twice rotated back and forth.
As Cass watched in astonishment from across the table, the water clouded, fizzed, foamed, and turned ruby red.
A ghostly smile flitted across Señor Hugo’s lips.
“Is it… wine? Or… blood?” Cass asked nervously.
“Cranberry juice. Beautiful color, isn’t it?”
“Uh-huh.” Cass stared at him, realizing the implications of what he’d just said. “I knew you could see!”
Señor Hugo nodded, removing his sunglasses. “You know what they say, among the blind…” He paused.
One eye, his left, was dull and lifeless. The other stared directly and cruelly at Cass.
“The one-eyed is king,” he finished the sentence.
Cass froze. Now she was scared.
“I trust my secret is safe with you?”
“As long as you give me back my mother,” she managed to say.
“I think you mean, as long as I don’t give you back your mother. She’s my collateral, after all.”
“But you… promised!”
“I also said you would never see her again if you told your friends.”
“I didn’t! I mean, I didn’t tell them about you. They thought we were finding the Tuning Fork for… for…,” she stammered.
“For the Terces Society? You’re splitting hairs.”
Cass turned a shade paler. “How do you know about that?”
“How do you think?” He clenched and unclenched his gloved fist in demonstration.
“You’re… in… the… Midnight… Sun?” asked Cass, the full horror sinking in.
Señor Hugo laughed. “Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais told me to watch out for you. They said you were smart. I think they overestimated you.”
The chef stood up, slipping the Tuning Fork into his satchel.
“Relax, Cassandra. Your mother is safe. For the moment, she’s worth more to us alive. As insurance. In fact, I seem to remember her saying she worked in the insurance industry. How ironic.”
As he walked out, he turned over his shoulder. “Oh, I wouldn’t drink that cranberry juice if I were you. Like you said, it’s very dangerous.”
The front door closed behind him.
Cass slouched in her chair, drowning in despair.
She had betrayed the Terces Society.
Blackmailed her school principal.
Lied to her friends.
Put a cursed object with unlimited power in the hands of the Midnight Sun.
And she hadn’t even succeeded in getting back her mother.
For the first time in her life, Cass, the survivalist, felt very little will to survive.
She stared at the glass of cranberry juice in front of her—if cranberry juice it was. Why not? she thought. What could happen that would be worse than what had already happened? She had no doubt the juice would taste extraordinary.
If it killed her, at least her last sip would be memorable.
Slowly and deliberately, she stood up, picked up the glass, and—
—marched back to the sink and poured.
The red liquid splashed angrily against the white porcelain. It circled the drain several times as if giving Cass a last chance to stick her finger in and get a taste. But when it finally went down, the liquid left no trace. As if it had been only water all along.
With a heavy sigh, Cass turned and walked over to the kitchen phone. She had a friend to visit. And a mother to save.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
FAR FROM ABIDJAN

As soon as Simone woke, she knew she was not alone.
Her vision was too blurred to see who—or what—was in the cell with her. She only hoped it wasn’t the mamba.
“ --, ---’ -- -------! ---’ -- ---- ------ --- -----.”
It wasn’t a snake; it was a woman. Talking to her. In English.
Simone had been trying to learn the language by reading the old newspapers in her cell—most of them were in English—but the woman was speaking too fast for her to understand.
Shakily, Simone sat up and tried to make her eyes focus. She had a headache so excruciating it felt like a drill was boring into her skull.
At least I’m alive, she thought. Somehow, she had recovered from eating that dark and terrible chocolate. That last Palet d’Or.
“Can you speak more slowly?” she asked. “I speak English very little.”
“I said, oh, you’re awake. You’ve been asleep for hours,” answered the woman. “I’m Melanie. What’s your name?”
“Simone.”
“Well, it’s nice to meet you, Simone. I’m glad to see you’re OK.”
Gradually, Simone’s eyesight was returning. Her cell looked much the same as it always had. Grim and gray.
The woman—Melanie—was sitting against the wall on the opposite side of the cell. Her hair was bedraggled and her shirt was torn. She looked tired. And scared.
“Are you a supertaster, too?” Simone asked.
“A what?”
“Do they make you taste the chocolate?”
Melanie shook her head, confused. “No…”
“So then why are you here?”
“I’ve been asking myself the same question.”
Now that she was fully conscious, Simone was remembering more and more about her excruciating experience eating the chocolate. And about the memories—of her past, of her family, of her home—that the chocolate had brought back to her.
A tear slid down her cheek.
“Has the bird been here?” she asked.
She didn’t know why it seemed important, but it did. She could tell by the sky that it was late in the afternoon. A full day had passed. Or had it been several days? There was no way to tell.
“Bird?”
“A green bird with a long tail?”
“Oh! Yes. About an hour ago. He kept squawking. He seemed angry.”
“He has hunger. He has anger if you do not feed him.”
“Just like my daughter.” Melanie smiled—sadly. “And they keep you here… to taste chocolate? Against your will?”
Simone nodded.
Melanie was silent a moment, absorbing this strange and terrible information.
“Where are your parents?” she asked finally.
“I do not know. For three years.”
“They must miss you very much.”
“Then why did they give me to these bad people?” Simone blurted out.
“I don’t know,” said Melanie. “But I bet it was because they love you and they thought you would have a better life with them. If your parents knew what it was like, I’m sure they would try to rescue you.”
“You think so?” asked Simone in small voice.
Melanie crawled over and grasped Simone’s hands. “Yes, I think so.”
Simone smiled gratefully. “Your daughter misses you, too. I know it.”
“I just hope she’s OK. She’s a tough girl, but she’s never been on her own for such a long time.…” Melanie trailed off. “The last time I saw her, we had a fight. Well, not a fight really. But we were angry at each other. She said… she said I wasn’t her real mother… I adopted her, you see.”
Simone nodded. “Probably she is not angry at you. Probably she is angry at her old parents. For giving her away.”
Melanie looked at Simone in surprise. “I never thought of that! You may be right.”
She released Simone’s hands. “Where did you grow up?”
“The countryside. East of Abidjan.”
“Abidjan? That’s in Africa, isn’t it?”
Simone laughed. Was this woman serious? “Who does not know where Abidjan is? It’s the biggest city in the country.”
“What country?”
“This country. The Cote d’Ivoire.”
The older woman looked shocked. “We’re in the Cote d’Ivoire? I had no idea we traveled so far…”
Simone thought about it: all this time, she’d simply assumed they were in her home country. But she’d been asleep when she arrived. She had no idea how far she’d traveled either.
“Actually, I don’t know where we are,” she admitted.
In truth, they could be far, far from Abidjan. They could be anywhere in the world.
“You there! Get up!” Daisy was outside their cage, turning the lock.
“Me?” Melanie asked.
“Yes, you. They want to talk to you.”
“Whatever you do, don’t eat any chocolate,” Simone whispered.
Melanie nodded and stood shakily to her feet.
A short time later, a wretched-looking Mel was escorted out of the Tasting Room.
“Just like I thought—that woman knows nothing,” said Dr. L. “Why is she here? It’s her daughter we want.”
“Precisely, darling,” said Ms. Mauvais. “Precisely.”
“I see.” Dr. L smiled thinly. “Nice work, Hugo.”
The chef bowed his head, his dark glasses glinting.

* * * SECRET MESSAGE * * *
DEAR READER:
DO NOT BE ALARMED!
WE WRITE TO YOU WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WRITER OF THIS BOOK—THAT SHAMELESS CRETIN WHO CALLS HIMSELF PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH. HOPEFULLY, YOU WILL FIND THIS NOTE BEFORE HE DOES.
PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH IS NOT WHO HE SAYS HE IS. HE IS A LIAR AND A FRAUD. DO NOT BELIEVE A WORD HE WRITES.
THE MIDNIGHT SUN IS NOT AN EVIL ORGANIZATION OF BLOODTHIRSTY ALCHEMISTS. WE ARE A PEACEFUL GROUP OF DOCTORS AND SPIRITUALISTS WHO HAPPEN TO SHARE A PASSIONATE LOVE OF GLOVES.
IT IS TRUE THAT WE WANT TO KNOW THE SECRET. BUT IT IS ONLY BECAUSE WE WANT TO SHARE ITS FRUITS WITH THE WORLD.
THE TERCES SOCIETY PRETENDS TO GUARD THE SECRET OUT OF PRINCIPLE, BUT IN REALITY THEY ARE SELFISH AND GREEDY AND WANT IT FOR THEMSELVES. IT IS THE TERCES SOCIETY THAT MUST BE STOPPED!
WE INVITE YOU TO COME TO ONE OF OUR MEETINGS AND FIND OUT FOR YOURSELF. YOU WILL BE SURPRISED BY HOW MUCH WE CAN OFFER A PERSON LIKE YOU.
A LONG LIFE—A VERY LONG LIFE—IS ONLY THE BEGINNING.
SECRETLY,
THE MIDNIGHT SUN

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Family Dinner

Family dinner. Now that was an oxymoron, thought Max-Ernest.
Never once in his life had he experienced anything like a family dinner.
Dinner with his parents?—yes.
Dinner as a family?—no.
For years, he and his parents had all lived in the same house. Every night, they’d all eaten at the same time and at the same table. But it was never the same dinner. Never a family dinner.
Rather than share, his mother had made one dinner, his father another.
Night after night, his parents sat across from each other, refusing to acknowledge each other’s existence let alone each other’s food. Max-Ernest, meanwhile, had been expected to eat everything: his mother’s dinner and his father’s.
The result: a lot of stomachaches.
Things had improved slightly last year when his parents had—literally—split their house down the middle, his father moving his half-house across the street. Now Max-Ernest could go back and forth between his two dinners rather than having to eat them both at once.
Tonight, though, something radical was going to take place. He and his mother and his father were all going to have dinner together.
As a family.
The same dinner.
That was the plan, anyway.
It all started with Max-Ernest’s allergies:
Tonight, like all Tuesday nights, was supposed to be spaghetti night in both Max-Ernest’s half-households. Due to his wheat allergy, Max-Ernest could eat only gluten-free pasta. Unfortunately, all the gluten-free spaghetti was gone last Sunday when Max-Ernest’s mother went to the supermarket. Why? Because Max-Ernest’s father had taken the last package. As Max-Ernest’s mother learned when she found herself in line behind Max-Ernest’s father at the checkout stand.
There was, by all reports, a brief tussle that ended in gluten-free spaghetti spilling all over the supermarket floor. Who was at fault Max-Ernest would never learn because, strangely, each of his parents blamed him-or herself:
“I don’t know what came over me,” said his mother. “I just grabbed at that box as if it was the last spaghetti on earth. I’m ashamed of myself. Everybody was staring!”
“I felt so foolish,” said his father. “We were squabbling like two-year-olds in a sandbox. The whole store was looking at us! Why I couldn’t just give that box to your mother I’ll never know.”
Max-Ernest had trouble imagining the conversation that ensued after the spaghetti spill; he’d never heard his parents say more than two or three words to each other. But, apparently, instead of escalating the fight, his parents had reconciled. At least to the point of agreeing to have dinner together. At a restaurant, naturally. So they wouldn’t fight over who was to cook or whose half-house to eat at.
For years, Max-Ernest had dreamed of something like this. But now that it was really happening, he felt nauseous. He wouldn’t be able to eat a thing, he thought. Gluten-free or otherwise.
There were simply too many obstacles to navigate.
Left undecided, for example, was whether the three of them would drive to the restaurant in one car or two. If one car, what if his parents fought on the way and they never made it to dinner? If two, whose car would Max-Ernest go in?
And that was just getting there.
At the restaurant, would he be expected to eat two dinners as he was accustomed to (but which seemed excessive under the circumstances) or would he be permitted to order just one dinner? Would he be able to talk to both his parents at once for the first time? Would one parent be offended if he talked to the other?
Family dinner.
Correction: not an oxymoron, a nightmare, Max-Ernest thought.
As it turned out, all Max-Ernest’s worries were for naught.
Just two minutes and thirty-five seconds before they were supposed to leave—yes, he was counting the seconds—a teary-eyed Cass arrived on his mother’s half-doorstep.
“It’s an emergency,” she whispered. “Wherever you were going, tell your mom you can’t go!”
“Great!” exclaimed Max-Ernest. “That’s totally… great!”
“Wait, now are you being sarcastic?”
“No, I just didn’t want to have to go to dinner.…”
When he spoke to his parents, Max-Ernest received an even bigger shock than he’d received when his parents announced the dinner plans in the first place:
“No problem—we’ll be fine without you!” said his mother, smiling at his father. “There’s leftover tabbouleh in the fridge. Or your father can give you money for delivery. He’s always so generous!”
“Great—enjoy your night at home!” said his father, smiling at his mother. “Order in if you want. But your mom’s tabbouleh looks terrific! That’s what I’d have…”
A moment later, they waved good-bye as cheerfully as if they’d been planning on dinner for two all along.
Overnight, his parents had gone from acting like their whole worlds revolved around their son to being completely indifferent to his presence.
What had happened?
Max-Ernest didn’t know whether to be happy or sad or disappointed or relieved or grateful or angry.
So he decided to save emotions for later.
As a place for a young survivalist—or anyone else—to find comfort, Max-Ernest’s mother’s half-house left something to be desired. It was an elegant but cold place decorated with hard, sharp objects. More troublingly, an entire side of the half-house was boarded up with plywood where Max-Ernest’s father’s half-house had been sawn off. Navigating the half-house was difficult for anyone who wasn’t used to it (and sometimes even for people who were used to it).
Nonetheless, it was in Max-Ernest’s mother’s living room that Cass now found herself pacing back and forth.
I won’t go into detail about Cass’s confession; I like her too much to embarrass her that way. To her credit, she told Max-Ernest everything. From her foolishly bringing up the Tuning Fork in Chef Hugo’s class to her even more foolishly handing him the fork an hour before.
There were, however, two words missing from her long, solemn soliloquy:
“You didn’t say I’m sorry,” said Max-Ernest, sitting on his mother’s favorite polished stone bench, his spiky hairs bristling like the quills of an angry porcupine.
“Why should I apologize?” asked Cass, who in her agitation was pacing more and more rapidly.
“You lied.”
“Not really. I just didn’t tell you everything. The note from Hugo said I couldn’t… Ow!” Cass exclaimed. (Cass, pacing, had bumped her shin into the corner of a sleek glass coffee table.)
“No, you lied,” said Max-Ernest, ignoring Cass’s injury. “You told us the reason it was so important to find the Tuning Fork was that Pietro was testing us. But he wasn’t, was he?”
“No, not really, but I had to say something… Ow!” Cass exclaimed again. (Cass, recoiling from the coffee table, had backed into the plywood wall behind her.)
“No, you didn’t,” said Max-Ernest, ignoring Cass’s second injury. “You could have just said it was important and not told us why. Or—”
“OK. I didn’t have to lie,” said Cass, holding the back of her head and fighting tears (whether of emotional or physical pain, I couldn’t say).
“And you got us all worried for nothing. How ’bout that?”
“For nothing!?—my mom was kidnapped!”
“I didn’t mean nothing in that way. Anyway, that’s not the point. You should have trusted me. Friendship is based on trust.”
“How do you know? You didn’t even have any friends until you met me!”
“Well, how many friends did you have?”
Cass paused. She wasn’t sure if his question was rhetorical or if he actually wanted her to answer. Either way, he’d stumped her.*
“All right. I’m sorry.”
Max-Ernest looked stricken. “Don’t say that!”
“What?”
“That you’re sorry.”
“Why? I thought you wanted me to.”
“But you never apologize.”
Max-Ernest could count on one hand—really on one finger—the times Cass had apologized to him in the past. And the one thing he liked less than Cass lying to him was Cass changing.
“Everybody’s… different now. It’s so upsetting.”
“OK, whatever. I take it back then.”
“Good.”
They were silent for a moment, each lost in thought.
“Anyway, sorry your mom was kidnapped. I don’t mean sorry sorry, I mean… that’s… bad.”
“Yeah, it is.”
That ended their argument. For now.
“I have to tell Pietro, don’t I?” Cass said, sitting down on the bench next to Max-Ernest. (I can say with some certainty that Cass meant this as a rhetorical question, but he answered nonetheless.)
“Yes… no,” Max-Ernest replied.
“What do you mean?”
“Well, yes, you have to tell him, it’s your duty as a Terces member. But no, you can’t tell him because there’s no way to reach him,” Max-Ernest explained. “Yo-Yoji told me that Pietro and Lily just left for Africa to look for Owen. They haven’t heard from him and they’re worried. Lily even canceled Yo-Yoji’s violin lessons. How ’bout that?”
“Well, then we have to go, too!” said Cass, standing up again. “I bet that’s where Hugo’s going with my mom.”
“How’re we going to go to Africa? That’s ridiculous. You never make sense. We’ll never be allowed.”
“Well, my mom’s not around to stop me, is she?”
“Maybe we can help from here.”
“How?”
“I don’t know—why don’t we blow up the picture in We and see if there’re any clues we missed earlier? For starters.”
Cass opened her mouth, about to dismiss his idea. Then she gave him a small, grudging smile. “Actually, that’s not such a bad idea. For starters.”
Max-Ernest small-grudging-smiled back. “Hey, do you want an ice pack? My mom keeps lots of them in the freezer for when people hurt themselves.”
Cass shook her head. She wanted to get on with the job at hand as soon as possible.
Cass had never been to Yo-Yoji’s house before.
Under normal circumstances she would have resisted going: what if he didn’t want her there? what if his parents said something embarrassing? what if the other kids at school found out? (Last year, a rumor had gone around school that she and Yo-Yoji had crushes on each other and they’d never quite lived it down.)
But these were anything but normal circumstances; and of the three young Terces members, Yo-Yoji had by far the best computer setup.
So here they were.
At Cass’s dream home.
Even as preoccupied as she was with her mission, Cass couldn’t help noticing that Yo-Yoji’s house had everything she’d ever wanted in life. (That’s an exaggeration but it pretty well expresses her feeling upon seeing the house.)
In the driveway, leaning against the side of the house, there were mountain bikes and snowshoes and kayaks and canoes and fishing poles and a trailer that looked like it had seen more than its fair share of camping trips.
When Yo-Yoji let her and Max-Ernest in, she saw all the photos that Yo-Yoji’s father had taken of snowy mountain peaks and sandy deserts and river gorges. And all the artifacts from around the world that Yo-Yoji’s mother had collected: six-armed goddesses from India, carved Buddhas from Cambodia, handwoven blankets and baskets from the American Southwest.
“Wow, your parents have been a lot of places, huh? That’s so cool. Your father’s a really good photographer.” Her own mother never traveled (although it was true Melanie was famous among her friends for her collection of travel books).
Yo-Yoji shrugged. “I guess. He always has to use this old film camera he’s had for forever. And then he can never get the pictures developed anywhere. It’s kind of crazy.”
“He should go to my grandfathers’. They have a ton of old cameras.”
“Hey, Yoji—guess what,” yelled a very young voice from across the house. “I still have my whole pudding left!”
It was a strange and unfamiliar sight that greeted Cass and Max-Ernest when they followed Yo-Yoji into the kitchen: a family sitting around a table. Yo-Yoji’s parents, his little sister, Miho, and their littler brother, Gajin. The table was stained with some kind of brown and orange slop, and Gajin was jiggling a spoonful of chocolate pudding in front of his sister’s nose.
Yes, it was family dinner. Just the way you see it on TV or in the movies. Well, maybe a bit more chaotic, but close.
Gajin smiled when he saw his older brother walk into the room. “Hmm, looks good doesn’t it?” he taunted.
“Don’t you just love chocolate pudding, Yoji? Isn’t it the best thing in the world? Don’t you wish you had more?”
“You think you’re so smart waiting to eat ’til everybody finishes, but nobody cares!” said Miho in a cutting, older-sister kind of way. But the way she was looking at his pudding you could tell she wished it was hers.
Undeterred, Gajin put the spoon in his mouth and savored it slowly. “Yummmmmmmmmmmmmmm,” he said, drawing the sound out as long he could.
“O-M-G, you are so immature!”
Unable to take it any longer, Miho grabbed her brother’s full bowl of pudding and took a big, heaping spoonful.
“Mom! Dad!” Gajin screamed. “She’s eating my pudding!”
“Sorry, Gajin,” said his father. “The phrase ‘you asked for it’ comes to mind.”
“Can’t you two at least pretend we’re having a nice family dinner?” asked their mother. “If you haven’t noticed, your brother has guests.” She turned to Cass and Max-Ernest. “Sorry, guys—please excuse these monkeys.”
In truth, Yo-Yoji’s mother need not have apologized. Neither Cass nor Max-Ernest had anything to compare this dinner to. And it seemed normal enough to them. That was what was so abnormal about it.
Looking at Yo-Yoji’s family, Cass felt an ache deep in her chest. Part of it, most of it, came from missing her mother. But another part, a buried part, came from missing something she’d never had.
“Have you eaten? Most of the soup wound up on the table, but there’s still a little left—it’s carrot lentil.”
Max-Ernest hesitated. He was hungry. “Um, maybe we could—”
Cass interrupted. “It’s OK, we ate already. Thanks.”
“Is your mother away, Cass?” asked Yo-Yoji’s mother. “She never returned my call yesterday. I need an ally if I’m going to fight all the robo-moms at the PTA.”
On hearing this, Max-Ernest coughed. Cass gave him a quick kick.
“No, she’s just, uh, working all the time,” she said. “Can we talk to Yo-Yoji for a second?”
“Yo-Yoji?” repeated his father, eyebrows raised.
“Didn’t you know? That’s what his friends call him,” said his sister. “He thinks it’s cool.”
Red-faced, Yo-Yoji gave his sister a threatening look, then beckoned his friends out of the room.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
BIRDING BIRDING P.B.

Yo-Yoji’s bedroom looked liked it belonged in another house.
Rather than being full of ethnic artifacts, Yo-Yoji’s room was a shrine to popular culture. Rock posters were taped at random all over the walls. On the floor, game consoles and musical instruments were strewn along with discarded pants and T-shirts. The only part of the room that wasn’t cluttered with mess was the illuminated glass shelf that held Yo-Yoji’s carefully arranged sneaker collection.
Max-Ernest pointed to a poster prominently displayed above Yo-Yoji’s desk. “Was that that band you had from when you lived in Japan?”
“Yeah,” answered Yo-Yoji, kicking a purple skateboard out of the way so his friends could get by. “We used to still play together online, but there’s no time anymore…”
The poster showed a picture of Yo-Yoji, guitar in hand, next to two Japanese friends, one with a green Mohawk behind a drum kit, the other with long bleach-blond hair holding a bass guitar. It looked like they were standing on the moon.
Cass studied the poster, impressed. “You guys went on tour? Like doing concerts and stuff?”
Yo-Yoji looked embarrassed. “Kind of, not exactly. I mean we did a couple concerts—but they were in my garage…”

ALIEN EARACHE
THE MILKY WAY TOUR

“Oh.” Cass stifled a smile.
“I, um, made the poster myself.”
Yo-Yoji took the news about Cass and the Tuning Fork with considerably more calm and equanimity than Max-Ernest had taken it.
“So, then, that means we’re all good,” said Yo-Yoji.
“What do you mean?” asked Cass, confused.
“You lied to me and Max-Ernest, just like I lied to you guys…”
“You mean about not being in Terces? That was completely different.”
“Why? We were both following instructions. At least my instructions really came from Pietro.”
“Yeah, but you should have trusted us,” said Cass.
Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest both looked at her.
“OK, fine. I should have trusted you guys, too. We’re all three even,” said Cass. “Can we get started finding my mom now?”
“Wait, but I never lied to anybody!” said Max-Ernest.
“I’m sure you’ll get your chance, yo,” said Yo-Yoji.
Max-Ernest furrowed his brow. He might not have been sure how he was feeling, but if I had to describe his emotional state I might say it was confused, dissatisfied, and slightly resentful.
Within minutes, Yo-Yoji had scanned all the pictures from We and they were examining pixels on his laptop computer.
Apart from the cover photo showing the Skelton Sisters holding a baby, and the two-page picture of them with Ms. Mauvais and the “orphans,” there was one other picture. It showed three grinning boys in gray cloaks holding a long green snake as if it were a pet.
Here is the caption:

Orphans playing with the orphanage’s very own West African Green Mamba. A venomous snake known for its fast speed, the Green Mamba is normally very dangerous. But, according to orphanage officials, this one is quite tame, having been rescued as a baby in the rainforest and raised at the orphanage.*

“Do you think you can really tame a snake like that?” asked Max-Ernest skeptically. “They have really small brains.”
“I don’t know,” said Yo-Yoji. “But I know this: if there’s a West African snake, then they’re in West Africa, right? That leaves out East Africa. We narrowed it down to half the continent!”
“Actually, we already knew the plantation was in the Cote d’Ivoire, which is in West Africa, so that’s not really that helpful,” said Cass.
“Oh, right,” said Yo-Yoji, deflated. “Well, what about the rainforest part—does that help?”
“Maybe,” said Max-Ernest. “We could start by figuring out what parts of Cote d’Ivoire have rainforest and go from there. How ’bout that?”
An online search revealed that most of Cote d’Ivoire’s rainforest was in the southeastern parts of the country. However, the rainforest was so large they couldn’t use that information alone to pinpoint the plantation.
“What about the bird in the other picture?” said Max-Ernest. “Maybe it’s like the Northwest Southeast African Go Five Blocks and Turn left Rainforest Parrot or something?”
Yo-Yoji laughed. “That was kind of funny, dude.”
“Really?” Max-Ernest smiled, gratified.
“The bird’s not identified the way the snake was,” said Cass, who was feeling a creeping sense of despair again.
“So maybe we can identify him,” said Yo-Yoji. “My parents have a lot of bird books. They’re into bird-watching and stuff. They call it birding.”
“Birding? That’s weird,” said Max-Ernest. “Like if you collect stamps, you’re stamping. Or if you collect tennis shoes, like you, you’re shoeing—?”
Not bothering to answer, Yo-Yoji zeroed in on the image of the green bird and enlarged it until the bird almost filled the screen.
“His back is to us,” said Cass. “How are we going to identify him from his back?”
“At least we can see he has that really long tail. And look, there’s that yellow Mohawk on the top of his head. That could help.”
“Sure, if he wants to join your band.”
“Ha ha,” said Yo-Yoji, who clearly did not find her joke funny. “Now just a second—”
Yo-Yoji left the room for a minute and returned with a stack of books with names like The Avian Encyclopedia and Hello Birdie and Fine Feathered Friends.
“You weren’t kidding—that’s a lot of bird books,” said Cass.
“Maybe if we just look for African birds in the indexes that would narrow it down,” said Max-Ernest. “How ’bout that?”
This approach made sense to the others, and for over half an hour, they pored over pictures of ostriches and albatrosses, falcons and flamingoes, pelicans and loons. Alas, there were many green birds, but not one with a long tail and a yellow Mohawk.
Getting frustrated, Cass started looking through a book that Max-Ernest had discarded because it was called Birds of the Americas (and thus unlikely to help them identify an African bird).
She froze after flipping only a few pages.
“Hey, guys,” she said slowly. “What if they’re not in Africa at all?”
“What do you mean?” asked Max-Ernest.
“Well, do you think it’s possible Ms. Mauvais would just pretend they were in Africa?”
“You mean like in order to confuse the Terces Society and send us on a wild-goose chase all over the world? Yes. Definitely,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Well, look at this—”
Cass turned the book around so they could see the photograph of the big-eyed bird she’d been staring at. The bird had a red chest and had a yellow crest atop its head. The rest of the bird was bright green. Next to the photo, there was a smaller picture of the bird from behind—showing its exceptionally long tail.
There was no mistaking it: this bird was the bird in We magazine.
“It’s called a quetzal. It’s the national bird of Guatemala,” said Cass, turning the book around to face her again.
“So then they’re in Guatemala?!” Max-Ernest shook his head, thinking about all the time they’d just wasted on African birds.
Cass scanned the rest of the entry on the quetzal. “It says the bird could be anywhere in Central America.”
Yoji typed on the computer, pulling up information on Central America. “So that means they’re in…,” he started reading aloud, “Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, or Panama.”
“Great. Now we’re worse off!” Cass groaned. “It was easier when it was just the Cote d’Ivoire.”
“Wait—what about the snake? Why’s there the African snake if they’re in Central America? That doesn’t make any sense,” said Max-Ernest.
The three friends looked at each other in consternation. So much for Central America.
“Hey guys, you see that—?” Yo-Yoji pointed to the computer screen.
He’d just enlarged another section of the snake photo. Faded words were now visible—stenciled on the stucco wall behind the kids holding the snake:

PLEASE DO NOT FEED ANIMALS
And:
MONKEY CAGES 1/4 MILE

“They must be at a zoo!” said Yo-Yoji. “Or at least a place that used to be one.”
Max-Ernest nodded, excited. “That would explain how there could be a Guatemalan bird and an African snake.”
“Yeah, but we still don’t know where the zoo is,” said Cass. “It could be in Africa or Central America or anywhere.”
“Actually, we know it’s neither of those places,” said Max-Ernest.
Cass looked at him in surprise. “What do you mean?”
“First of all, the signs are in English. Not French or Spanish. And you know what else—see how it says mile, not kilometer? Most countries use metric—besides ours.”
“So they’re not even in Central America, they’re like in… North America?” Cass couldn’t quite absorb the rapid change of locations.
“How ’bout that?”
Yo-Yoji smiled. “Pretty smart.”
Max-Ernest grinned. “Now all we have to do is figure out which zoos are big enough to hide a chocolate plantation.”
“So I guess we might get to go find your mom after all, Cass,” said Yo-Yoji.
Cass nodded, beginning to tear up again—but this time from gratitude, not despair. “Thanks, you guys,” she whispered, feeling in a rush just how lucky she was to have such great friends.
Just then, Yo-Yoji’s little brother walked into Yo-Yoji’s room unannounced. He was balancing three bowls on a tray, and his face was streaked with tears.
“Mom made me make more pudding for everybody, but there wasn’t any more chocolate, so we made vanilla,” he said. “It’s kind of lumpy.”
“Uh, I’m not really hungry,” said Cass, backing away from unappetizing bowls of gelatinous gray gop.
“Me neither, dude,” said Yo-Yoji. “Sorry.”
“Max-Ernest will eat it. He’s not allergic to vanilla,” said Cass.
“Yeah, but what if I don’t… like it?” Max-Ernest protested.
“I told Mom you wouldn’t want it if I made it!”
Starting to cry, Gajin dropped the tray to the floor and ran out of the room. Bowls of pudding splattered on the wall—and all over the shelf of pristine sneakers.

~A Clarification~
I’m not anti-vanilla, just pro-chocolate. I wanted to make that clear for all the villains, oops! I’m sorry, I mean vanillains, out there.
You know who you are.

CHAPTER NINETEEN
Logistics

BUS TRAIN X amount of time ZOO destination credit card MONEY Cash Borrow ZOO Parents Cass Max-Ernest Yo-Yoji

Even with the combined Internet searching talents of three exceptionally smart young investigators, it took several hours to identify every zoo in North America. But only a few zoos were so big they might conceivably hide a chocolate plantation. By the time Max-Ernest’s parents arrived to collect him and Cass, the kids had settled upon the likeliest candidate: Wild World Wild Animal Park.
Wild World was known for its “eco-hoods”: mini artificial ecosystems that recreated various climate zones and animal habitats from all over the planet. The largest eco-hood in Wild World was their rainforest (at least they called it a rainforest), and it was there our friends hoped to find the Midnight Sun—and Cass’s mother.
The question was logistical: how to get there?

THE PARENT PART
was easy.
Yo-Yoji’s parents gave him a lot of freedom—especially in summertime. The next morning, when he said he was going to the beach with his friends, his parents were just glad he was going to be outside rather than spending the day on his computer.
“I think I’m going to crash at Max-Ernest’s,” he said. “But if you want to talk to his parents, you should call on my phone. ’Cause I don’t know whether we’ll be at his mom’s or his dad’s—it’s so confusing.” (Yo-Yoji was especially pleased with this last detail—it seemed so plausible.)
The only glitch was that he had to leave wearing his bathing suit. He changed behind the trash cans in back of his house, trading board shorts and beach towel for a pair of jeans and his new favorite T-shirt. (The shirt was decorated with a Japanese character written graffiti style—the kanji, he’d been told, for samurai.)
Max-Ernest’s parents normally fought over every second of his time. But they’d become so preoccupied with each other (that morning found them having coffee at Max-Ernest’s mother’s half-house; later they’d be having an afternoon snack at his father’s) that they didn’t offer a single objection when Max-Ernest said he and Cass and Yo-Yoji were going to the movies and that he wouldn’t be home for a long, long time because they were going to a “triple feature.”
“A triple feature? That sounds triple-icious!” said his mom, smiling at his dad.
“Triple-dipple-duper!” said his dad, smiling at his mom.
Max-Ernest stared at his parents: were his eyes deceiving him or were they holding hands? Catching his glance, they quickly let go of each other.
Max-Ernest left them with an uneasy sense that his parents’ bodies had been taken over by another couple—an alien couple.
Cass’s mother: well, that was the point, wasn’t it? The upside of her having been kidnapped was that she wasn’t around to forbid Cass from running off to save her.

THE HARD PART
was money.
When they pooled their resources they had only enough for the train tickets; there was no money left over for admission to the wild animal park, not to mention the trip home.
Then Cass remembered the credit card her mother kept in the drawer in the kitchen. It was for emergencies only, her mother had told her. But if her mother’s very own personal kidnapping didn’t qualify as an emergency, what did?
Perhaps money wasn’t the hard part, after all.

THE TRAIN PART
was easy in one way, hard in another.

Destination: Xxx Xxxxx
Estimated time of arrival: X:00

Naturally, I can’t tell you where their train was going, or how long the ride was supposed to be. To be more precise, I can tell you—that is, I am able to tell you if I choose—but I won’t tell you. For reasons with which you are by now all too familiar.
However, I feel I should tell you about a minor, very minor, episode that occurred as they boarded the train. Only because it caused Cass so much consternation:
“After you,” said Yo-Yoji.
“After me what?” asked Cass, confused.
“Um, for you to get on the train first…”
“Oh, right… You mean ’cause I’m a girl or something? That’s dumb!”
“Whatever.” Yo-Yoji shrugged and stepped onto the train.
Cass let Max-Ernest board before following her friends into the train car. Yo-Yoji’s politeness was so weird and out of character that it had caught her off guard. But she shouldn’t have snapped at him like that. He probably thought she was still angry at him. Was she still angry at him? she wondered.
Automatically, Max-Ernest slid over to the window, making room for Cass—just as he did on the bus every day during the school year. Cass was about to sit down next to him—just as she did every day during the school year—when she noticed out of the corner of her eye that Yo-Yoji had also slid over for her. Or started to.
Cass’s ears tingled with panic. If she sat down with Max-Ernest, Yo-Yoji would definitely think she was still angry at him and he might even get angry at her. But if she sat down with Yo-Yoji, she would be making a big statement—after all, she sat next to Max-Ernest on the bus every day during the school year—and she knew from experience that Max-Ernest would be very hurt. She’d learned the hard way that he was more sensitive than he seemed; he might not be good at feelings, but he definitely had feelings nonetheless. Not to mention the fact that he was already sore about her lying to him about Pietro.
All things considered, she decided that sitting next to Max-Ernest was the less risky of her two options. (Of course, when I recount her thought process, it seems like she took a long time coming to this decision, but in reality it only took a second.)
If Yo-Yoji was in any way hurt or angry he didn’t show it. However, let the record show that when Yo-Yoji again had the chance to offer Cass a seat—on the tram at Wild World—he didn’t even glance her way.

CHAPTER TWENTY
An Invisible Chapter
*FOR OBVIOUS SECURITY REASONS, I HAVE BEEN EXPERIMENTING WITH INVISIBLE INK. ALAS, I HAVE NOT YET FIGURED OUT HOW TO MAKE THE FULLY RE-VISIBLE.

Th
not ear ove the scr ams f the onkeys
olate plantatio                             s


st


          Mauv   s in h r pers nal chambers.
              V ry


      un stre m d thro th curta n, uminatin er gold   ress nd sign tur diam ds.


     r. L peere ver r oulder. “You l k lov y, my d ling.”


C


on th desk wa          of


             ook d alarm ly lik Cas.
“Ar ou qu t cert n thos re her p ents?” he a ked.
“                .”


“We’v b n so cl se in the      ! I don’
      tt


  R


          erces soci
  n
                             Midn
                                                            o squishy


                             99 of th m!
                                                                        s


                       By now Ms M


    r l
                                                           said sternly.


     q


                                        z
     s ch a shock!”


     e


                                 nd again


CHAPTER
TWENTY-ONE
Welcome to 
WILD WORLD

…You can tell he’s an African Elephant and not an Asian Elephant by looking at his ear—see how it’s shaped just like the continent of Africa?”
The woman who said these words wore a khaki jacket and matching pith helmet. Mosquito netting hung over her face. She looked as though she were on safari.
That is, aside from the microphone in her hand. And the fact that she was standing at the front of a tram.
She gestured to the tall gray animal standing about twenty feet away. The elephant flapped its ears obligingly—then spit water out its trunk, as if disgusted with the show.
“The African Elephant is officially listed as endangered. Does anyone know the difference between a vulnerable species and an endangered species?”
The tram was silent—no one, apparently, was able to answer the tour guide’s question.
Then, in the very back, a girl with pointy ears piped up: “Vulnerable means a ten percent chance of extinction in the next hundred years. Endangered means—”
The short, spiky-haired boy sitting next to her interrupted: “Endangered means there’s a twenty percent chance of extinction in twenty years.”
Their taller, Asian friend, sitting across the aisle, shook his head. “I thought we said we weren’t going to call attention to ourselves,” he whispered. “You guys are such know-it-alls.”
“Nobody can see us,” said Cass defensively.
“Yeah, nobody can see us,” said Max-Ernest.*
The tram had two sections hooked together like train cars; and from their vantage point the three young adventurers could see not only the elephants standing on the side of the road, but also the tram riders up front, gawking at the elephants.
The tram was painted with a camouflage pattern that suggested military maneuvers and jungle adventures, and on its sides were the words:

WILD WORLD
The World’s Wildest Wild Animal Park
Go WILD! Go WILD WORLD!

But so far, the wildest part of the ride had been a too-close encounter with the tongue of an animal named, according the tour guide, “Jerry, the Very Merry Giraffe.”
In his lap, Max-Ernest held the glossy Welcome to Wild World map they’d received when they bought their tickets. It showed how the animal habitats at Wild World were divided into eco-hoods—the ecological neighborhoods the kids had read about earlier—with names like Misty Marsh, Dead Man’s Desert, and Rainbow Rainforest.
This last eco-hood, the rainforest, was by far the largest, occupying nearly half the area on the map. It was there, our heroes hoped, that they would find the hidden chocolate plantation and perhaps even the new secret headquarters of the Midnight Sun.
Currently, the tram was winding its way through the park’s version of African grassland—SERENGETI SAVANNA. The sun was just starting to go down—this was, after all, the SUNSET SAFARI tram ride—and the landscape glowed gold. In the distance, a flamboyance of flamingoes was silhouetted, gathered around a watering hole.**
“It’s kind of like we got to go to Africa, after all,” said Max-Ernest. “How ’bout that?”
“Kind of,” said Yo-Yoji, whose parents had made him look at one too many pictures of the real Africa. “And kind of not.”
Cass looked out across the rolling, grass-covered hills of the manmade savanna. Maybe it could be Africa, she thought, if you ignored all the popcorn and candy strewn along the side of the road.
As they rounded a turn, an excited murmur rippled through the tram. A large yellow sign was posted on the hillside:

WARNING 
ENTERING LION COUNTRY
KEEP ARMS INSIDE TRAM AT ALL TIMES!

But the only animal in sight was a zebra ambling away. If there were any lions nearby, he didn’t seem very scared of them.
“Where are the lions? I want to see a lion!” shouted a child up front.
“Sorry—looks like they’re sleeping,” explained the tour guide. “Did you know the average lion sleeps over twenty hours a day? That’s why they call them the king of beasts—because they’re so lazy!”
The crowd tittered.
“Can you hear that ringing sound? Believe it or not, those are frogs croaking. We are now approaching Rainbow Rainforest.”
This was our friends’ cue to start paying attention. Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji all craned their necks, straining to look ahead.
Rainbow Rainforest definitely lived up to its name—at least if you weren’t expecting a real rainbow or a real rainforest.
As soon as they crossed into the (so-called) rainforest, hidden sprinklers drenched the tram with water; it was like driving through a torrential downpour in the tropics. (Or maybe just like driving through a car wash.) Meanwhile, a strategically placed floodlight created a prism effect—a rainbow. Of sorts.
Unlike SERENGETI SAVANNA, which was wide open with views in all directions, the rainforest was dense and dark and, if you were somebody like Max-Ernest, extremely claustrophobia-inducing. The leaves were so big, and the trees so tall, that you couldn’t help feeling small—as if you were looking at the world through the eyes of an ant.
“Out in the real world, more animal species live in rainforests than in any other type of environment—and that’s true here at Wild World, too. We have over twenty species of frogs, including one species that flies. And twelve kinds of monkeys—though no flying ones. You’ll have to visit the Wicked Witch of the West to find those!”
As the tram drove deeper into the rainforest, the park visitors experienced a kind of sensory overload. While tropical birds cawed from every direction, the frog croaking grew louder and louder until it was almost deafening. The last rays of sunlight penetrated the trees from above, casting shadows in the shapes of vines and leaves, and creating dizzying patterns of light and dark, brown and green. The air was so pungent—with honey and cinnamon and vanilla, but also with musk and mold and much fouler scents—that they had to hold their noses.
All in all, the rainforest was not an easy place to look for a hidden chocolate plantation.
The kids heard no shouts between invisible plantation workers. They caught no whiffs of chocolate floating through the air. They saw no tractor tracks buried in the mud. No secret messages tied to tree trunks. No signs of illicit activity whatsoever.
Then again, all those things could have been there—and they still might not have been able to detect them.
Boldly, Cass walked up the tram’s center aisle and asked the tour guide whether there had been an old zoo where Wild World now stood. But the tour guide said that if anything like that had ever existed, she didn’t know about it. And it certainly didn’t exist now.
Cass climbed back into her seat and stared out into the shadows. It was now almost completely dark in the rainforest—the only illumination coming from the lights of the tram.
“This is crazy. How’re we supposed to see anything?”
“How’re we even supposed to think?” echoed Max-Ernest. “It’s so loud.”
“Let’s face it—there’s nothing to see, yo,” said Yo-Yoji. “We picked the wrong zoo. Or maybe it wasn’t even in a zoo in the first place.”
“Yeah, you’re probably right,” said Cass, slinking down in her seat as misery weighed down on her.
The possibility of not finding her mother was too horrible to think about; and yet she couldn’t not think about it.
By the time the tram drove out of the rainforest, all that was left of the sun was a pinkish red tip peaking over a hill.
“Hey, what’s that—?”
Max-Ernest pointed to a small gray tree—dead, by the looks of it—sticking out of the grassy hillside. A bright green bird was sitting on one of the tree’s skinny, bare branches.
As the last rays of sunshine slipped away, the bird flapped its wings and lurched into the sky.
Tense with anticipation, all three kids stuck their heads out of the tram and watched the bird pass overhead. There was just enough light left to see its red belly—and then its long tail waving in the wind.
There was no doubt: it was a quetzal.
“Hey, you three in back!—heads back in the tram, please,” came the order from up front.
As they watched, the bird flew straight toward the rainforest. Then veered left and entered the rainforest directly above the point where they’d entered some twenty minutes earlier—just past the lion warning sign.
“Did you hear me? Yes, you with the backpack—and your two boyfriends. If you don’t sit down in your seats I’m going to have to stop the tram!”
The kids yanked their heads back inside and sat down. Cass was so excited she didn’t even get angry at the tour guide for calling Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest her boyfriends.
Max-Ernest pulled a pen out of his pocket and drew an arrow on the map where the quetzal had flown into the rainforest.
They were in the right place, after all.
Somewhere, deep inside that manmade jungle, lurked the Midnight Sun.

Welcome to WILD WORLD
Entrance RAINForest

Rainforest Guided Tour
Caravan
Souveniers
Desert
Raining
Aronic Zone
Vulcans Creatures

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
A Kitchen Witch, a Fire Hose, and a Swiss Surprise

THE KITCHEN WITCH
“Are you Cassandra’s grandfather?”
“Who wants to know?”
Normally, Grandpa Larry was not very suspicious of strangers, but the woman standing on his doorstep looked like she’d been dropped there by a tornado. Her hair stuck out in every direction. Her lipstick was smeared across her face.
“Her principal,” said the woman, breathing heavily. “You’re listed as an emergency contact.”
“What happened?” asked Grandpa Larry in alarm. “Is she all right?”
“As far I know. She’s not home.”
“So then it’s you who’s having the emergency? I didn’t realize an emergency contact would be responsible for the entire school staff! What a curious system—”
“Well, that’s not exactly—”
“By the way,” Larry continued in a huff. “Since you’re here, I’d like to have a word about assigning homework in summer. This report Cass is doing on tuning forks—”
Mrs. Johnson shrieked like a wounded animal. “Don’t say that word!”
“What?”
“Tuning forks… Fork. That… dreaded thing is why I’m here,” she said, gasping for air. “I… need it back.”
Shaking, she tried to light a cigarette. It fell from her hand.
“It was my ancestor’s,” said Mrs. Johnson in an increasingly agitated and disjointed fashion. “She was… well, I never believed the rumors… so what if her fudge was addictive, that just makes her a good cook, right? It doesn’t make her a… a witch.”
Mrs. Johnson laughed a hoarse little laugh.
“But now I don’t know what to think. She’s punishing me from… the Beyond… for giving up the Tuning Fork… what other explanation is there?… I have this… this kitchen witch… you know those little cloth figures on a broom—doesn’t everybody have one? It’s hanging from a lamp and it keeps swinging and swinging.”
“Perhaps an effect of the heat?” suggested Grandpa Larry.
Mrs. Johnson shook her head vehemently. “Sometimes I think I hear it laugh.… And that’s not all… I… I keep losing at cards.”
Grandpa Larry smiled. “Oh, we all have a bit of bad luck sometimes. That doesn’t mean the ghost of a witch is seeking revenge on us.”
“I’m… losing all my money. Soon, I’ll be penniless.”
Larry shook his head. “Have you considered getting professional help?”
“There’s only one thing that can help me!” Mrs. Johnson gripped Larry’s arm. “Please. Tell Cass to get me my Tuning Fork back! I’ll forgive everything. She and her horrid little friends can come back to school in the fall just like nothing happened…”

THE FIRE HOSE
“Lar-ry!”
When Larry reentered the fire station, Wayne was shouting at him from the most crowded corner of their crowded store.
“What’s so important? I’ve just spent twenty minutes talking to Cass’s school principal and you know how I feel about principals.”
“I went outside to water and the old hose sprung a leak,” Wayne explained. “So I thought, why not use a real-man’s hose…?”
He gestured to the big coil of fire hose at his feet.
“You were going to water the lawn with a fire hose? Isn’t that a little like lighting a candle with a blowtorch?”
“That’s not the point. Look what I found—”
Wayne pushed the fire hose aside, revealing the cardboard box behind it. “You recognize that, don’t you?”
“How could I forget? You’re talking about the birth of our granddaughter… her arrival, anyway,” Larry amended.
“The funny thing is—I could swear it was all taped up,” said Wayne, puzzled.
“Of course it was!” exclaimed Larry. “We were saving it for when Cass turned eighteen.”
Wayne nodded, remembering. “And yet somebody…”
“But whoever comes back here?”
“Nobody… except Cass.”
“Oh, no,” said Larry, anxiously stroking his long, long beard.
Wayne shook his head, twisting the two long braids of his beard with his finger. “I wonder why she didn’t say anything…”
“When would she have? This is the second day she hasn’t shown up for work. And her principal said she wasn’t home…”
“Are you thinking what I’m thinking?”
Larry nodded gravely. “The note.”
He pushed the box out and opened the top. Mr. Wallace’s letter was in plain view.

THE SWISS SURPRISE
A few minutes later, Mr. Wallace hung up the phone.
He sat at a table in the middle of his beloved Terces Society archives, thinking. He was fairly certain he’d convinced Cass’s grandfathers that he hadn’t seen Cass since she was a baby, and that he barely remembered who she was. But, in truth, he was just as concerned as they were. Perhaps more so.
The question was: if Cass had found the letter, why hadn’t she confronted him? Cass was so hotheaded. It was unlike her to delay something like that. Unless there was an emergency. Or there was some reason she was unable to reach him. Her grandfathers claimed she wasn’t home. So where was she?
He could think of several possibilities, each more worrisome than the last.
“Guten Tag, Herr Wallace.” A man in a pilot’s uniform stepped into the trailer. The uniform was torn and muddy, but the wearer himself was no worse for wear.
“Owen?!” Mr. Wallace stared at the younger man in surprise.
“Why’s everyone always so shocked to see me? Makes me feel like a ghost… Where are the others?”
Mr. Wallace smiled thinly. “In Africa. Looking for you.”
“Ah. Well, they won’t find me there. Or the Midnight Sun either.”
“No?”
Owen shook his head. “I think they planted the Africa idea to divert us. I just discovered they’re much closer. At the zoo, in fact.”
“The zoo, huh?” Mr. Wallace looked at him thoughtfully. “Could Cass have made the same discovery?”
Owen chuckled, taking a seat opposite Mr. Wallace. “Cass? Are you kidding? She’s always a step ahead of us.”
“I know—to her detriment.”
“Don’t start on that again, Old Man,” said Owen testily. He loved Cass like a sister and didn’t like Mr. Wallace’s tone. “The Society is much better off with her as a member. And she’s better off, too.”
“Oh, is that right?” Mr. Wallace snorted derisively. “She’s missing, Owen.”
“Missing?”
“That’s what I said.”
“So you think she went after them herself?”
“What I think is that I’d feel better if I knew where she was.”
“Me, too,” said Owen, his face serious.
“The girl must be protected at all costs,” said Mr. Wallace quietly.
Owen nodded. “We agree on that at least.”
He scratched his head thoughtfully. “Hmmm. Who do you think should pay a visit to the zoo? Large animal veterinarian…? Concerned dad who’s just lost his daughter…?”
He took off his pilot’s hat and started making faces in a pocket mirror, devising his new character.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
An ANIMAL ALPHABET

It was closing time at Wild World. Tired parents and whiny children spilled out of the park gates.
Behind them, a park worker in a giraffe suit waved good-bye.
The crowd thinned as it spread across the parking lot, some people stopping right away at cars parked in SECTION A-ANACONDA or SECTION B-BOBCAT, others drifting toward SECTION C-CAPUCHIN or SECTION D-DINGO.
“What’s a capuchin?” asked Cass. “Is it like the color of a cappuccino or something?”
“No, that has nothing to do with it—it’s an animal, not a drink,” said Max-Ernest in mild disbelief. “Haven’t you ever heard of a capuchin monkey?”
“Well, you don’t have to be so snitty about it.”
The normally talkative friends fell into a restless silence. The vast parking lot stretched in front of them.
Long after all the other park visitors had peeled away, Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji kept walking—all the way past SECTIONS W-WOMBAT, X-XERUS, Y-YAK, and Z-ZEBRA.
“If you’re so smart, what’s a xerus?” Yo-Yoji asked Max-Ernest, interrupting the quiet.
“Uh, I forgot, well, I mean, never heard of it,” Max-Ernest reluctantly admitted. “But there are signs on the poles—it probably says.” He turned around, about to go back and read about the xerus.
“No—it’s not important right now!” Cass and Yo-Yoji said in unison.*
The highway that bordered Wild World was not intended for pedestrians, and for a few minutes they had to walk single file along the narrow strip of cement that passed for a sidewalk. Cars whizzed by, flattening the kids against the park’s tall wroughtiron fence.
“What if somebody sees us?” worried Max-Ernest as a headlight briefly illuminated his face.
“Then they’ll just think our car broke down,” said Yo-Yoji.
“But we don’t have a car. We’re not old enough to drive.”
“So then they’ll think we’re walking to the bus!” said Cass.
When the fence turned a corner, they turned, too. After they’d walked only a short distance, the highway noise faded away and they found themselves surrounded by darkness.
Cass reached into her backpack and took out a flashlight. But when she turned it on they couldn’t see much more than the road below them, now unpaved and lined with muddy tire tracks.
Where the road led they could not see.
Cass moved the circle of light to the right. No longer wrought iron, the fence here was chain link and topped with spools of razor wire. The light reflected in a yellow sign bearing a picture of a hand struck by lightning bolts. Not a fence you’d want to climb.
“Let’s keep going,” said Yo-Yoji. “There’s gotta be a back entrance somewhere.”
“Yeah, but it’s probably for people who work here. Like veterinarians or whatever,” said Max-Ernest. “We’ll need a pass or something—”
“Well, figuring out something has never been a problem for us before, has it?” asked Cass, pushing ahead.
The night was dark, and—except for a few moments when the clouds parted to reveal a bright crescent moon—they relied on Cass’s flashlight to navigate. (It was the kind that recharges whenever you move it, so there was no danger of the battery dying.) They each stumbled a few times—the road was dotted with rocks and potholes—but for the most part they managed fairly well. I think eating at Hugo’s restaurant must have sharpened their senses, just as he’d said it would.
They passed three back entrances to the park, but one was locked up with so many chains it would have taken Houdini himself to open it, and the other two had been welded closed. After forty minutes of hiking in the dark, they were all getting tired and discouraged, but nobody was willing to say so.
Without warning, Cass stopped and turned out her light.
“What is it?” asked Max-Ernest.
“Shh—listen.”
They heard footsteps—very close by. But whose? And rustling. But from where?
Cass turned her flashlight back on and made a 360-degree turn until it landed on the park fence.
Behind the fence, terrified eyes stared out at them. Then bolted out of sight.
“Was that a deer?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“It was an antelope… well, I think it was,” said Max-Ernest. “It could have been a gazelle. Or a—”
“At least we know we’re still next to Wild World,” said Cass, interrupting before he started naming every animal he knew.
They’d almost circled the entire park when a yellow light appeared in the distance ahead of them.
As they got closer, they saw that the light was emanating from a small booth next to a large gate. Behind the gate, the road turned into the park. Inside the booth, a guard was watching a football game on television.
The kids lingered underneath a pine tree about thirty feet away.
“You think we could climb over?” Yo-Yoji whispered. “I doubt the gate is electrified.”
“I don’t know, it looks pretty rickety. Plus, the guard would hear us,” said Max-Ernest.
“Max-Ernest is right,” said Cass. “I think we have to wait for it to open, then sneak in somehow.”
“Is anybody else like totally starving?” Yo-Yoji grumblingly asked.
Cass pulled a bag of trail mix out from the bottom of her backpack. The trail mix—Cass’s “super-chip” recipe of equal parts potato chips, banana chips, and chocolate chips—had been mashed and melted into a single lump.
Yo-Yoji made a face. “How old is that?”
“Do you want it or not…? And don’t take too much. That’s all I’ve got.”
Yo-Yoji broke off a handful. Max-Ernest carefully extracted the banana chips—the only things in the trail mix he could eat. Then he put even those back.
“The chocolate might have gotten on them,” he explained in a whisper.
After only a few minutes, although it felt much longer, they heard a vehicle approaching. Just in time, they slunk farther into the shadows.
A white van drove past, barely slowing as it neared the park gate. It had no back windows and no markings whatsoever. For a second, they could see the driver; he was pale and bald and expressionless, just like his vehicle.
The guard in the booth stood up straight and saluted the van driver. The gate opened with a screech.
“You think we should follow him in?” asked Cass.
“No way. The guard will see us for sure,” said Max-Ernest. “He could turn on an alarm or something. Or maybe just come after us. He might even have a gun—”
“So how’re we going to get in, then?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Maybe he’ll go to the bathroom,” said Cass hopefully.
“I think we should make a run for it—then hide,” said Yo-Yoji.
But it was too late. The gate was already closing.
“Guess we’ll have to wait for the next one,” said Max-Ernest.
The others gave him a look: no kidding.
In a short while, another vehicle passed by. It was a long truck with an open bed full of bales of hay. The three friends looked at each other and grinned: a hayride! Perfect.
The truck stopped at the booth. This time, the gate remained closed.
“Sign in, please.” The guard handed the truck driver a clipboard.
“Thank you, don’t mind if I do,” said the driver, tipping his ten-gallon hat. His voice had a hint of a twang and his mouth was surrounded by a big handlebar mustache. He was a cowboy.
“Come on!” Cass whispered.
The three kids crouched down and run-walked toward the truck, keeping in the shadows by the fence.
“Don’t get too lonely out here now,” said the cowboy, handing back the clipboard. “G’night.”
The kids climbed on just as the truck started to move.
“Ow!” Max-Ernest scraped his leg as he lifted himself over the side-rail.
“Shh!” Cass motioned for Max-Ernest to squeeze himself between hay bales beside her and Yo-Yoji.
The truck braked. The young stowaways froze. Hearts thumping in their chests.
The cowboy opened his door. “Hey, d’ya hear that?”
“Probably just an animal smelling dinner,” said the guard.
“Guess so,” said the cowboy uncertainly.
He paused, looking around. Then closed his door and shifted the truck back into gear.
The road was bumpy and the cowboy drove so fast it seemed the truck tires were in the air for half the ride. The kids’ butts got a bit bruised, but wedged between hay bales they rode in relative safety.
The truck parked next to the van in front of a low warehouse building with three rolling garage-style doors, one of them open.
The cowboy jumped out and headed for the open door, a piece of paper in his hand. “Hello, anybody home?”
Cass, watching from behind a hay bale, was about to signal her friends to get off the truck when the bald van driver stepped out of the building, stopping the cowboy from entering. The bald man had a clear view of the truck; they would have to wait for another opportunity to escape.
“Well, howdy,” said the cowboy, tipping his hat. “I got a truckload of hay for you courtesy of the friendly folks at Tapper-Perry Farms.”
“I can see that,” said the bald man tersely. He took the paper out of the cowboy’s hand and scanned it.
“This isn’t the price I agreed to.”
The kids slunk farther down between the hay bales, listening.
“It’s only a five percent hike. We just switched over to organic hay, so our expenses are up. All our farmin’s sustainable now,” said the cowboy proudly. “The alfalfa, the soy, all of it.”
“Well, that’s very nice for you, but I don’t think our zebras give a rat’s behind whether their hay is organic or mint-flavored.”
“I thought this park encouraged conservation.”
The bald man snorted. “I’m the operations manager. My job is to conserve money.”
The cowboy peered into the warehouse. “Look at all that sugar. Is that healthy for the animals?”
“Maybe it’s for people—not that it’s any of your business,” said the bald man, moving so that the cowboy couldn’t look inside any longer. “Now you give me the price I was quoted or you just back that hay out of here. Matter of fact, I want a five percent discount.”
The cowboy hesitated, fuming. Then,
“Fine. You have a forklift?”
“What’s wrong with your hands? You can stack it all by the wall over there.” The bald man pointed to the side of the building. “I’ll cut you a check when you’re done.” He headed back inside the warehouse without another word.
“Jerk,” said the cowboy under his breath. He started walking back toward the truck.
Cass measured the distance with her eyes. Should they try and make a run for it before he reached the truck? He would probably see them, but at least they’d have a fighting chance of escape. If they stayed on the truck, they’d be discovered for sure.
“OK, run!” she whispered.
It was the wrong decision.
She hadn’t run ten feet when the cowboy grabbed her wrist with one hand and Max-Ernest’s wrist with the other.
“You little rascals!”
Yo-Yoji stopped on his own a few feet ahead. “Let them go!”
“Not in your lifetime,” snarled the cowboy. “Nobody sneaks on my truck and gets away with it! Where’d you get on? The farm?”
“No, just outside the gate—honest! We’re… animal activists,” said Cass, thinking quickly. “We’re here to spy on Wild World. We heard the elephants were treated badly so we came at night to see for ourselves.”
“Yeah, the African Elephant is endangered,” said Max-Ernest. “Do you know the difference between a vulnerable species and endangered one?”
“No, but I know you little punks are both vulnerable and endangered right now.” He tightened his grip on Cass and Max-Ernest. They squirmed.
“But you’re a conservationist,” said Yo-Yoji. “Don’t you want to help us?”
“Help you? I should tan your hides!” The cowboy shook his head in disgust. “But between you and me, that guy in there really ticked me off. I ain’t in a mood to help this park out right now. So I’ll just pretend I didn’t see you.”
He released his prisoners. Cass and Max-Ernest rubbed their wrists, relieved.
The cowboy chuckled. “You can set all their elephants free for all I care. Now git!”
The kids didn’t need to be told twice.
*    *    *
As soon as he was alone, the cowboy spoke into his phone:
“Change of plan—I’m letting them stay to see what they find out… Don’t underestimate those kids. You should have seen the way they handled me…! You think I don’t know it’s dangerous, Old Man…? Go ahead, call Pietro. I’m sure he would agree with me…”
Then he clicked off and climbed back into his truck.
As the three kids rounded the warehouse the moon came out and they could see Rainbow Rainforest looming in the distance. It was a dark mass about a half mile away, separated from them by the grassy hills of SERENGETI SAVANNA. From where they were it looked less like a rainforest and more like a storm front.
“My mom’s in there somewhere,” said Cass, staring. “Let’s go—we’ve got to save her.”
“We’ll never be able to see in there at night,” said Max-Ernest. “Remember how dark it was?—and that was when there was still a little sun left.”
With Yo-Yoji’s help, Max-Ernest convinced Cass they should find a place to sleep. They could enter the rainforest early in the morning, before the park opened.
After walking for about ten minutes, they settled on a spot nestled between two small hills. Boulders surrounded them, giving them a sense of protection.
“Do you think one of us should keep watch while the others sleep?” asked Max-Ernest. “I mean in case somebody sees us.”
“That’s a good idea,” said Cass.
“For sure,” said Yo-Yoji.
“So who…?”
Max-Ernest’s friends looked at him expectedly.
“Fine,” he said after a moment. “But I’m waking one of you up after a couple hours. It’ll be like a watch system on a boat. How ’bout that?”
Unfortunately, he didn’t make it that long. He was so exhausted that he barely made it a couple minutes.
Soon, all three friends were fast asleep. As the minutes wore on, they snuggled closer together for warmth. Like puppies lying together in the grass.
Given the peaceful expressions on their faces, you’d never guess they were camping out in a wild animal park, exposed to the elements and only minutes away from the home of perhaps the most vile and villainous organization in the world, the Midnight Sun.
Shadowy forms stalked them in their sleep. But when one after another they stirred and looked briefly out at the starry night, they reassured themselves that they were dreaming, and that those shapes were only boulders.
With contented sighs, they resumed their innocent slumber.
Only when dawn came did they learn they were no longer alone.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR
CAT FOOD

Max-Ernest’s bed, like everyone’s bed, sometimes got gritty. After a day of digging through stuff at Cass’s grandfathers’ store, for example.
Never, however, had he felt a pebble as large as the one now sticking into his thigh. It was practically a rock. In fact, it was a rock.
He shifted away from it, only to hit another, larger rock with his left hip.
What was going on? Where was he?
Still half asleep, Max-Ernest raised his head.
He immediately noticed two things:
First, he was not in bed. He was outside. And it was dawn.
Second, the air around him was very hot and moist. It felt almost as though there were an animal breathing down the back of his neck.
Come to think of it, it smelled that way, too.
Suddenly, Max-Ernest was gripped by fear. Fear worse than when Dr. L offered to operate on his brain. Fear worse than when Ms. Mauvais threatened to feed him to a shark.
Slowly, by inches, Max-Ernest turned around.
Until he faced a sight few people ever get to see. And fewer still live to tell about.
The inside of a lion’s mouth.
The lion opened wider, stretching his black lips and baring his long incisors. His tongue, Max-Ernest couldn’t help noticing, was just about the size of Max-Ernest’s head.
The lion let out the biggest yawn Max-Ernest had ever seen. Or heard. Then the lion shook his mane and—blessedly—closed his mouth.
But Max-Ernest’s relief was short-lived. Because a second later the lion was licking his lips and staring at him. It looked rather like the lion was contemplating breakfast.
“Stand up slowly,” Max-Ernest heard Cass whisper from somewhere behind him. “Don’t run—remember, that triggers their predatory instincts.”
His heart pounding, Max-Ernest complied. He looked over his other shoulder. A few feet away from him, Yo-Yoji and Cass were already standing.
They were surrounded by lions on all sides. Six altogether. A pride. The boulders, it turned out, were seats. Thrones. For the kings of beasts.
“Now hold your arms out wide like the Amazing Alfred told us.” Cass spread her arms, demonstrating. “Like you’re really big, and too much trouble for a lion to chase down and eat. Like maybe you’d fight back.”
Terrified, Mar-Ernest and Yo-Yoji followed suit.
“OK, start backing away—slowly.”
Step by stumbling step, the three kids walked backward down the hill. The longest walk of their life.
The lions blinked at them but did not move.
Eventually, our young heroes found the courage to turn their backs on them and pick up their pace. Silently, they all thanked the Amazing Alfred for their lesson in lion safety.
Of course, it is impossible to know exactly what the lions were thinking, or whether or not the lion tamer’s wide-arms trick convinced them to leave the kids alone. But, judging by their expressions, the lions didn’t think the strange two-legged animals striding away from them looked very tasty. *
Most likely, the lions thought the three humans were out of their minds. The humans, after all, were walking straight toward the rainforest. And the lions knew better than to ever enter such a dangerous place.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
The garden of Unearthly Delights

Max-Ernest stalled.
There was no way to pass without getting wet. So much water rained down from the sprinklers at the entrance to Rainbow Rainforest that there was practically a waterfall.
“C’mon, if you don’t hurry we might get caught!” Cass beckoned from the other side where she and Yo-Yoji were both standing drenched. “We don’t know what time the first tram goes through.”
“Just a second—I’m saving up my breath!”
“It’s not like you have to swim…”
“OK, OK!” Closing his eyes, Max-Ernest sprinted through the downpour.
“Way to go, dude!” Laughing, Yo-Yoji patted Max-Ernest on the back while Cass ran ahead. “You can open your eyes now…”
Max-Ernest opened his eyes cautiously. Relieved, he shook his hair out like a dog.
“Darn it!”
They looked down the road: in her eagerness, Cass had slipped in the mud. She pushed herself up on her hands, sleeves dripping.
“You OK?” Yoji asked when he and Max-Ernest caught up with her.
“Fine!” said Cass, her ears tingling with embarrassment. “But look—” The remaining trail mix had spilled in the mud. There was no saving it.
“Too bad,” said Yo-Yoji. “I was just going to ask for some. I’m way hungry.”
“I know. Me, too.”
As Cass shakily stood up, Max-Ernest pointed behind her—“Hey, is that a path?”
It was. In her fall, Cass had knocked over a bush, revealing a narrow footpath.
The kids wasted no time in following it.
At first the path was so winding and overgrown that they thought it might not be a real path at all. Or perhaps it had been made by an animal. But eventually it widened and before long they found themselves in a large, sun-filled clearing—the first time they’d seen more than a small patch of sky since they’d entered the rainforest.
“Yo, Max-Ernest—heads up,” said Yo-Yoji, throwing something small and round at him. “Breakfast!”
Max-Ernest instinctively reached up to catch with both hands, not knowing what it was. But as soon as he felt the fuzzy texture, he was overwhelmed with a sense of horror. And he dropped the offending object—a peach—on the ground.
“Don’t ever do that again,” he said, pale and trembling.
“What? Throw fruit at you? I thought you’d be used to that after all those stand-up comedy routines of yours—just kidding.”
“I have haptodysphoria.”
“Don’t tell me—another allergy,” said Cass.
“No, it’s a phobia. It’s fear of peach fuzz.”*
“Is that like one of your weird jokes?” asked Yo-Yoji, incredulous.
“I never joke about my conditions.”
“I’ll vouch for that,” said Cass. “But it’s too bad you won’t try one, Max-Ernest—they’re the best peaches I ever had.”
After further investigation, they discovered the peach tree was not the only fruit tree in the vicinity; they were in an orchard. But an orchard unlike any of them had ever seen before. It was more like a botanical garden—exclusively for fruit. Each tree was labeled with the name and description of the kind of fruit the tree bore.
Most were fruits the kids had never heard of:

MAGIC FRUIT
Take one bite of this mysterious fruit, and for a long moment afterward, sour things will taste sweet and sweet things sour.

STAR FRUIT
This yellow fruit originally came from Sri Lanka. When you slice it, it makes stars.

DRAGON FRUIT
Though its flesh is sweet, this fiery fruit has scales like the meanest dragon.

Cass tried to discard the hitchhiker fruit she’d picked only to have it stick to her shirt. (So that was what the sign meant about hitching a ride…!)

STINKY FRUIT
Known as the King of Fruits, the odor of this prickly fruit is so strong the fruit has been banished from many places in Asia.

HITCH-HIKER FRUIT
Don’t brush against this fruit unless you want it to hitch a ride.

Needless to say, Max-Ernest wouldn’t sample any of the fruit. “What are you guys going to do if I have an allergic reaction? You can’t very well take me to the hospital,” he pointed out. “So why do you think all these trees are here anyway? You think there was a fruit section in the old zoo? That doesn’t really make sense.”
“Wouldn’t the trees be bigger then? Most of these don’t look very old,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Maybe Hugo planted them—and they’re ingredients for chocolate, you know, like different fillings and flavors,” said Cass.
Max-Ernest considered this. “Maybe. But then where are the cacao seeds? That’s what you really need to make chocolate.”
“What do cacao trees look like?” asked Yo-Yoji. “You guys did all that research…”
“They grow kind of straight up with branches sticking straight out,” said Max-Ernest. “They look kind of like cartoons. Also, they only grow in the shade. So they wouldn’t be out here—hey!” Max-Ernest covered his head protectively. “Would you stop throwing things at me already?!”
“I didn’t! But now I’m going to…!” Yo-Yoji laughed, ducking as something sailed past his head. “You threw that back so fast—who knew you could!”
“But I didn’t…”
“Ow!” This time it was Cass who got hit—in the face. “It’s neither of you, you buttheads! Look—”
A monkey was hanging by his tail from a tree limb at the edge of the orchard. In outline, he looked like a classic monkey, the kind of monkey you might see collecting coins for a street performer in an old movie. But his face was an unusually dark shade of brown and his fur was a fluffily perfect snow white.
In one hand, he held some kind of orangish reddish fruit that resembled a deflated football. Laughing merrily, he picked seeds from the fruit. Ate one or two. Then threw the rest at the kids below.
“Hey, cut that out!” said Cass.
Yo-Yoji picked a seed off the ground—it was purple—and threw it back at the monkey, narrowly missing him. “How do you like that, monkey-dude?!”
The monkey snorted unrepentantly. Throwing his half-eaten fruit to the ground, he dropped from his perch and caught a lower branch by one hand. With the appearance of ease, he swung himself to another tree—and disappeared into the rainforest.
Max-Ernest ran to the bottom of the tree the monkey had abandoned, and he grabbed the now squashed remains of the fruit.
“Yuck!” He held it as far away from his face as possible. Sticky white pulp oozed onto his hands. But as disgusted as he felt, he grinned with excitement. “This is it! This is a cacao pod. It looks just like the pictures.”
“So those things he was throwing were cacao seeds?” Yo-Yoji scrambled to find more of the seeds on the ground.
“Forget the seeds—follow the monkey,” shouted Cass. “Maybe he’ll take us to the tree!”
They caught sight of the monkey almost as soon as they reentered the rainforest.
As the monkey swung effortlessly from branch to branch, the kids scrambled to keep up. Unfortunately, the ground was covered with roots and puddles and plenty of other less identifiable obstructions.
“I thought we were supposed to be more evolved than monkeys—I never realized walking was so slow and impractical,” complained Cass, breathing hard. “Maybe in the future we’ll go back to having monkey hands.”
“But then we’d lose our opposable thumbs,” said Max-Ernest. “That wouldn’t make sense, evolution-wise.”
“Yeah, but we’d have opposable tails like his—that would be cool!” She nodded to the white monkey hanging by his tail from a tree up ahead. He almost seemed to be lingering intentionally, as if he was waiting for them.
“They’re called prehensile tails,” said Max-Ernest. “And I don’t think monkeys can write with them.”
Yo-Yoji shook his head. “Don’t you guys ever not talk?”
When they reached the monkey, he screeched at them—and leaped to the next tree.
“He wants us to follow,” said Cass.
“That’s great—as long as he takes us somewhere we want to go,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Hey, is anybody paying attention in case we need to retrace our steps?” asked Max-Ernest.
But the others didn’t hear him; they were already following the monkey deeper into the rainforest.
After another twenty minutes or so, their way was blocked by a huge fallen tree—with a trunk as wide as the kids were tall.
Cass and Yo-Yoji each grasped onto the tree, trying to climb over it—but they both slipped immediately. The tree bark was covered with slimy green moss. There was no way to get a foothold.
“Oh great!” Cass grumbled. “Now what?”
“I dunno,” said Yo-Yoji, looking up. “And the monkey’s gone.”
Max-Ernest frowned in consternation. “What’s this tree doing here anyway?”
“Blocking our way—what’s it look like?” said Yo-Yoji.
“No, I mean—why is it here in the first place? It would have to be hundreds of years old to have such a big trunk. And they only built this rainforest like twenty years ago… how ’bout that?”
“So maybe it was here before,” said Cass. “Anyway, the point is it’s here now and we have to figure out a way to get over it.”
Yo-Yoji looked closer at the tree. “Hey, Cass—give me your knife for a second.”
“Why—you want to carve your initials?” she joked. “That’s like polluting, you know.…”
“Just give it to me.”
Cass dug into her backpack and handed him her Swiss army knife. Yo-Yoji dug into the bark of the tree with it.
“Here—see.” He stuck his finger in where he’d carved a hole, then showed it to his friends. It was covered with white powder. Plaster.
“The tree’s fake!” said Cass.
They all looked at each other, excitement on their faces.
“They must have put it here to stop people from getting through,” said Max-Ernest.
“Like to a secret chocolate plantation!” said Yo-Yoji.
“Come on—there has to be a way in somewhere,” said Cass. “A secret passage or something.”
But there wasn’t. Not that they could find anyway.
On either end of the tree was dense brush. When they pushed it aside they found a hidden stone wall—topped with the familiar spools of razor wire. The wall meant they were probably right about the plantation being on the other side, but they were no closer to getting in.
Just as they were beginning to despair, the monkey swung into view above them. (He, obviously, had no trouble getting over the wall.) He shook his head, as if in disgust at their inability to swing from trees.
“Thanks for nothing,” Yo-Yoji shouted to the monkey. “We thought you were our friend—”
Cass put her finger to her lip. “Hey, maybe you shouldn’t shout so loud—somebody could be on the other side of the wall.”
Yo-Yoji shrugged in annoyance, but he remained silent. Cass was right, of course.
“I think maybe he’s trying to tell us something,” said Max-Ernest, staring at the monkey.
Indeed, the monkey, no longer laughing, had swung down to a low branch and was pointing to the root ball of the fallen tree. That is, the fake root ball end of the fake fallen tree.
Max-Ernest was the first to make it to the tree roots, which were surprisingly large and elaborate. When you looked at them straight on, the twisting roots spread outward, creating the shape of a sun.
At the center of the roots was a large round door, and at the center of the door a large brass knob in the shape of a monkey’s head.
Max-Ernest gave the knob an experimental turn. “It’s locked.”
“Is there a way to enter a combination or something?” asked Yo-Yoji.
Max-Ernest shook his head. “Doesn’t look like it.”
“Great. So there’s a key then,” said Cass in frustration. “How are we going to find the key?”
“Actually, I’m not even sure there’s a keyhole,” said Max-Ernest. “There’s just a… mouth.”
He pointed to the hole in the center of the brass monkey’s face; it was exactly where a mouth should be.
“Super. Now, we’re really not going to be able to open it… hey, cut that out!” said Cass angrily.
The monkey—the live monkey above them, that is—was throwing cacao seeds again. Cass’s shouting only seemed to encourage him to throw more. She shook her fist at him.
He shook his head disdainfully, then tossed a seed into his mouth.
“Wait,” said Yo-Yoji. “Here—”
He picked a cacao seed off the ground and handed it to Max-Ernest. “Put it in.”
Max-Ernest looked skeptical. Nonetheless, he carefully inserted the seed into the hole in the doorknob. It dropped like a coin in a slot.
“I think it worked—!”
He grasped the knob again. This time, it turned.
The door opened to reveal a narrow tunnel that ran the length of the tree. At the end was another round door, this one slightly ajar.
“Shh!” Cass put her fingers to her lips.
The others nodded. They didn’t know exactly what dangers awaited them on the other side of that door. But that there would be dangers, of that there was no doubt.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
Little, Brown Pearls

They saw them as soon as they walked through the door.
Standing straight up. Arms stuck out to the side. Row upon row upon row.
Cacao trees.
Planted between rows of other, taller trees. For shade. (Or possibly to hide them from a passing airplane.)
They were just as Max-Ernest had described.
With one difference:
“Are they… covered with snow?” Cass wondered aloud.
Indeed, it looked like snow had been accumulating on the trees for days, making big white mounds that weighed down the branches.
“That really wouldn’t make sense,” said Max-Ernest. “It’s summer and it’s pretty hot out.”
“Duh, I just meant it looked like it—”
“Plus, there’s none on the taller trees,” Max-Ernest couldn’t help adding. “Snow doesn’t usually stick to one kind of tree and not another.”
“It could be fake snow,” said Yo-Yoji. “I mean, there was a fake tree, right? Maybe they’re going to sell them at Christmas.”
The monkey screeched at them, perhaps to say good-bye, perhaps to tell them to stop arguing, then swung away into the cacao trees.
“C’mon,” said Cass. “Let’s keep going. But stay in the shade, under those taller trees. So nobody can see us.”
When they got closer, they saw that the white mounds on the cacao trees were moving. There wasn’t any snow at all, whether real or fake.
Rather, the trees were filled with hundreds, maybe thousands, of the white monkeys.
They chattered noisily, tossing so many cacao seeds—and the odd cacao pod—onto the ground that it seemed to be raining.
Beneath each tree was a gleaming golden pail that looked like something out of a fairy tale. Like a pail that might contain a secret potion or magic coins. Like a pail Hansel and Gretel might carry. The whole scene had a magical look about it, as if the trees were enchanted or the monkeys bewitched.
Occasionally, one of the monkeys themselves would drop onto the ground. He then would hop over to the pail and—
“Why are they sitting on those pails?” asked Max-Ernest.
“I don’t know,” said Cass. “It kinda looks like—”
Yo-Yoji shook his head in disbelief. “Why would anybody want to save… that?”
“Maybe for fertilizer?” suggested Max-Ernest, aghast.
Cass tensed. “Hey, do you guys hear voices?”
Her friends shook their heads, but they stopped talking all the same. They knew from experience that Cass’s hearing was far more acute than theirs.
Quietly, they all crept farther into the shadows and flattened themselves behind the furrowed earth.
An icy voice carried in the breeze. “All our beans have been pre-digested by our specially bred capuchin monkeys. Our mochachin monkeys, as we like to call them.”
The three kids shivered at once. They all recognized the voice and it gave every one of them a chill.
“All these beans you see on the ground—they’re the discards. The mochachins are very fussy. They insist on eating only the best and richest beans.”
From their place in the shadows, the kids could see Ms. Mauvais leading a small group through the cacao orchard. She was covered head to toe in a white nun’s habit—the sort with a headpiece that spreads out to either side like gull wings—but her porcelain-doll face was unmistakable. Her feet invisible beneath her robe, she seemed almost to be gliding over the mud and muck, as if she were suspended on a wire from above.
With her were the Skelton Sisters, dressed for the occasion in pink and purple camouflage as if they were part of some very girlish military operation. Montana Skelton held a video camera in her hand, Romi Skelton a microphone. The sisters were making some sort of film.*
Bringing up the rear: Señor Hugo, inscrutable as ever in his dark glasses.
Watching from the shadows, Cass stared at him, seething. This was the man who’d kidnapped her mother. Who’d manipulated her and broken his promise. She’d never hated anyone so much.
Apparently, she was making some kind of sound under her breath because Max-Ernest soon poked her. “Stop growling like that,” he whispered. “They’ll hear you.”
Cass nodded, snapping out of it. There would be time for growling later. She had a job to do.
“When they’re excreted by the monkeys, these superior beans are left perfectly intact,” Ms. Mauvais continued, speaking into the camera. “But they’ve acquired a distinctive flavor unknown anywhere else.”
“So then the cocoa beans have to be, like… dug out?” asked Romi, making a face.
Something like a smile crossed Ms. Mauvais’s frosty lips. “You don’t imagine we do that ourselves! We leave it to our eager young initiates. Isn’t that right, Alexander?”
She nodded in the direction of a small, unhappy-looking boy walking by with a golden pail in each hand. He wore a hooded gray tunic with a black sun embroidered on it—the insignia of the Midnight Sun.
“Oh my gosh, he is so cute!” exclaimed Romi.
She ran over to Alexander and grabbed him by the ear, causing the contents of a pail to spill out onto his leg. “Can we take this one home, Ms. Mauvais?”
“Yes, can we? Please,” said Montana, grabbing the boy’s other ear with her free hand and causing the other pail to spill. “We’ll take very good care of him, we promise. We’ll walk him and everything.” She pointed the camera at her sister. “We’re very good with little children, aren’t we, sis?”
“Oh, yeah! We love animals,” said Romi, not completely following. “That’s why we’re making a documentary at the zoo!”
“You mean in Africa,” corrected her sister.
“Oh, right, Africa! It’s so hard to remember where you are when you’re on a rock tour!”
“Let the boy go, darlings!” said Ms. Mauvais through her teeth. “We’ll talk about it later.”
As soon as the Skelton Sisters released him, Alexander scurried over to a long trough and emptied what remained in his two pails.
More similarly uniformed—and similarly unhappy—children were bent over the trough, sifting through the monkey droppings. Whenever they extracted one of the precious cacao beans, they rinsed it clean and placed it in a special golden pail marked with the Midnight Sun insignia.
“See what diligent workers they are!” said Ms. Mauvais to the camera. “We call them our Pearl Divers because the cacao beans are like pearls—little, brown pearls.… Tell them about it, Señor Hugo. Señor Hugo is our master chocolatier.”
He bowed, unsmiling. “Yes, they’re the secret ingredient in my chocolate. One of the secret ingredients, I should say.”
He patted the pocket of his chef’s apron. As if it contained a world of secrets. Secrets he would never think of divulging to the present company.
“So all these kids in the gray dresses—well, some of them are boys but you have to admit they still look like they’re in dresses—they’re all orphans like from your orphanage?” asked Romi.
“Yes, but we don’t think of them as orphans,” said Ms. Mauvais, attempting to sound warm and kind for the camera. “They’re our family. This is their home now.”
Ms. Mauvais wiped her pale brow with her gloved hand; all the lying was apparently exhausting her. “And now, if you’ll excuse me, I think we’ll stop there… I trust you’ll remove that unfortunate mention of the zoo.”
“Then this charade is over? I may get back to work?” asked Señor Hugo, scowling.
Ms. Mauvais nodded. The chef strode away, hardly bothering to pretend he couldn’t see.
During the course of the interview another person had silently joined the group. An elegant and very elderly man in a top hat. He leaned on a cane, waiting for the filming to stop.
Cass thought she recognized him as someone she’d seen over a year ago at the Midnight Sun spa.
When Ms. Mauvais’s other companions had dispersed, he finally spoke up: “I’m sorry, but I don’t think a nun’s habit suits you, my dear. I’m used to seeing you in gold and diamonds.” His voice was a throaty whisper. Even Cass had to strain to hear his words.
“Now I know why nuns are so ill-tempered,” agreed Ms. Mauvais, leading him back into the shade. “Itamar, darling, you’re supposed to be resting.”
“I have three or four days of life left at best. Forgive me if I’d like to spend them on my feet.”
“Nonsense,” Ms. Mauvais protested. “You’re nearly five hundred years old. They can’t snatch you away that quickly.”
Itamar pointed his cane at Ms. Mauvais. “I hope you’re not getting sentimental, Antoinette. We chose you long ago for your heartlessness. That is what the Midnight Sun needs. Not maudlin concerns about my health.”
The three eavesdroppers looked at each other. As interesting as the conversation had been thus far, perhaps the most interesting revelation was that Ms. Mauvais had a first name: Antoinette.
Itamar stretched his ancient mouth into a thin approximation of a smile. “I remember when your horse broke his leg. You were only ten years old.…”
“Not just any horse—an Arabian,” said Ms. Mauvais grandly. “I trained him myself. He was my prize possession. The closest thing I had to a family after my parents died.”
“And yet you killed him without shedding a tear!”
Ms. Mauvais looked for a moment as though she might object. “Don’t worry. My interest in preserving your life is purely practical. I rely on your advice and counsel. No one else is sufficiently experienced… or sufficiently ruthless.”
“Thank you. My advice now is to prepare for my death.”
“But we are so close! Immortality is at hand. In a piece of chocolate, no less.”
“So then it is as I suspected, Señor Hugo’s secret recipe is a recipe for the Secret?”
Ms. Mauvais nodded. “Let’s say it’s a recipe for the recipe… We will save you yet.”
“Perhaps. In the meantime, I am not the only one growing old. Even you, Antoinette Mauvais. Your two hundred years are beginning to show around the eyes. Or is it two hundred and fifty now?”
He touched the side of her face with his old gloved hand.
“Please don’t mince words, Itamar,” said Ms. Mauvais.
“I never do. If our organization is to survive, we need new members. Younger members.”
“I know! Why do you think I tolerate those two teenage trollops? Only so we can attract more followers.”
“Can you imagine kids joining the Midnight Sun?” Yo-Yoji whispered in the shadows. “What’s the point if you’re not old yet? I thought it was all about eternal youth.”
“Well, if you have their elixirs and stuff, you never have to get old. Or it takes a lot longer anyway,” replied Max-Ernest. “How ’bout that?”
“Oh yeah. So remind me then why we don’t want to join.”
“I don’t know,” said Max-Ernest. “Maybe because you have to wear a lot of gloves?”
“How about because they’re bloodthirsty killers and they kidnapped my mom!” exclaimed Cass in an outraged whisper.
Lifting herself up slightly, Cass peered down the path Señor Hugo had taken—was that the direction in which she would find her mother?—but she couldn’t see much beyond the rows of cacao trees and the fluffy white fur of the mochachin monkeys.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
Buried Alive

After Ms. Mauvais led Itamar away, our friends stood up and took better stock of their surroundings.
About a dozen yards beyond the sorting trough, there was a large, barn-shaped warehouse sided in corrugated metal. As they watched, one of the gray-cloaked children picked up two of the specially marked golden pails and, teetering, carried them into the warehouse, leaving the door ajar.
Silently, Cass motioned that they should follow. She counted to three with her fingers, then they all walked as quickly and quietly as they could toward the warehouse. It seemed like an awfully long distance to be out in the open, but as far as they could tell nobody saw them.
Upon entering, they passed through an entryway that looked like it served as a dressing room for the children. Hundreds of the gray uniforms were stacked on shelves, and almost as many golden pails were stacked on the floor.
Once inside the warehouse proper, they found themselves gazing at dozens of gleaming stainless steel storage bins. The bins were so tall that each was equipped with a ladder to facilitate access.
“You there—pick those pails back up and follow me to the Test Kitchen!”
The kids froze. The voice was Señor Hugo’s. Was he speaking to them?
No. A quick glance revealed he was down at the other side of the warehouse speaking to one of the miserable children they’d seen earlier.
But he was also walking right in their direction: in a moment, he would see them. There was no time to exit the building.
“Each of you—go jump in one of the bins!” Cass whispered, remembering how Caca Boy had hidden from the soldiers in a vat of cacao beans.
Max-Ernest started to open his mouth in protest but then thought better of it; this was obviously not the time to question a plan.
Without another word, Cass pulled herself up the nearest bin and disappeared over the edge.
Silently, Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest climbed up the two bins on either side of hers and followed suit.
Max-Ernest looked into the well of beans and worried briefly whether the fact that he couldn’t swim would be a problem. But then he closed his eyes, plugged his nose, and jumped.
He didn’t immediately sink under the cacao beans and he had to squirm around and then scoop beans with his hands to cover himself. In a moment, he had burrowed down to the point where he was almost completely surrounded by cacao beans, only the tip of his nose sticking out. It was a strange sensation, but not entirely unpleasant.
So far, so good, he thought. Being buried alive really wasn’t so bad. If only he could keep his claustrophobia from kicking in.
Max-Ernest was just congratulating himself on his success in avoiding panic when he remembered his chocolate allergy: was it the cacao beans themselves he was allergic to? And if so, would the beans have to get into his mouth to affect him, or would the allergens seep through the pores of his skin?
It was hard enough to breathe under all the beans; how would he survive if his throat started to constrict? Being captured by the Midnight Sun would almost be preferable.
Terrified, he waited for the telltale signs of an allergy attack.
There was no way to know when it would be safe to climb out.
Assuming Señor Hugo was gone, somebody else equally scary might be there. Then again, if they waited too long Hugo was likely to come back. Cass remembered that Caca Boy had come face-to-face with the monk when he emerged from hiding in the cacao beans; who would she see when she stuck her head out?
Cautiously, she shook her head from side to side, feeling the beans fall off like oversized grains of sand. Then she wriggled herself up enough to look around.
Just as she feared, there was somebody leaning over the edge of the bin, staring down at her.
“Aaah!” she shrieked. (Although thankfully not very loudly.)
Yo-Yoji smiled. “Scared much?”
“No!” said Cass, annoyed. “You just surprised me, that’s all.”
Next, each taking an arm, they pulled a silent and staring Max-Ernest out of the neighboring bin.
“You OK?” Cass asked Max-Ernest when they were all back on the ground.
Still closemouthed, Max-Ernest frantically shook cacao beans out of his hair. Then felt around on his face to make sure there weren’t any strays.
“You can talk,” said Yo-Yoji. “There’s nobody here.”
“Thanks. I’m fine,” Max-Ernest said finally. “I just didn’t want any beans to accidentally fall in my mouth.”
*   *   *
Soon, they had all safely exited the warehouse through the back door
In front of them, a small sign pointed the way to someplace called THE PAVILION. They weren’t sure what the Pavilion was, but since they also weren’t sure where Cass’s mother was, they agreed it was a reasonable place to start their search.
Rather than risking being exposed on the pathway, they chose the more difficult route of walking alongside it through the thick rainforest. After what would have been about a block and a half (if they were walking on the street rather than through mud and dense vegetation), they halted.
Peeking through the palms, they saw a round building large enough to hold an airplane or even a three-ring circus. It had a thatched roof held up by thick pillars of bundled bamboo. The building was surrounded on all sides by a wide covered porch decorated with wicker furniture and overhead fans. Silk curtains fluttered in the breeze. The whole place had the look of a luxurious tropical retreat.
The most notable thing about the Pavilion was that the entire structure was raised off the ground, like an enormous treehouse.
“That’s gotta be where they are,” said Cass. “This must be the Midnight Sun’s new headquarters.”
“It’s a pretty good hideout,” Max-Ernst noted. “I’ll bet that roof makes it hard to see from above.”
Yo-Yoji nodded in agreement. “Uh-huh… why do you think it’s on stilts like that?”
“Probably to keep the lions out… or us,” said Cass. “The question is, how do we get in?”
“We could just walk—” Yo-Yoji nodded toward the front doors, which were wide open. A steep wooden stairway led straight up to them.
Two sculptures carved from tree trunks—one of a bird, the other of a snake—stood sentry on either side of the doors. Otherwise, it looked as though nothing would keep them from entering.
The problem was: at least a hundred feet separated them from the Pavilion. The building might be camouflaged, but for them there would be no cover.
“Don’t you think we should wait until dark?” asked Max-Ernest.
Cass shook her head. “I don’t want my mom to have to wait that long. Plus, we’re out of food…”
“So you really think your mother’s in there?”
“Not necessarily. But we have to look…”
As they spoke, a plume of smoke erupted from the Pavilion. Suddenly, the air was filled with a familiar bittersweet scent.
“Chocolate!” said Yo-Yoji. “Now we definitely have to go in.”
Max-Ernest held his nose. “I hope I’m not allergic to the air…”
“Wait, I have an idea—”
Without telling them anything more, Cass started to retrace their steps.
An hour later, three young people wearing gray tunics and holding golden pails in their hands returned to the same spot. Anybody seeing them would have thought they were more child slaves—“eager young initiates,” as Ms. Mauvais had called them.
“OK, keep your heads down and look unhappy—”
On Cass’s signal, they stepped onto the lawn that surrounded the Pavilion. There was nobody around and they made it all the way to the bottom of the stairs before they were stopped.
“Can I help you?”
A tall, broad-shouldered woman hurried toward them from the side of the building. She wore a tunic similar to the children’s but hers was bright white, and, as our heroes noticed immediately, she wore white gloves on her hands.
They all tensed. It had been awhile since they’d faced a full-fledged member of the Midnight Sun.
“Where do you think you’re going? No initiates are allowed in the Pavilion, you must know that.”
Cass’s heart skipped a beat. It was Daisy. The woman who’d served as her prison guard at the Midnight Sun spa more than a year earlier. If Daisy recognized them, they were doomed.
“Señor Hugo wants this stuff in the Test Kitchen,” said Cass, careful to keep her face shadowed by her hood.
“You sure he said the Test Kitchen?” Daisy hesitated, as if this were rather unusual.
“Yeah, he said to get it to him as fast as possible!”
“Ah, in that case… kitchen’s in the back.”
“Right. Thanks,” said Cass.
Before Daisy could get another look at them, Cass and her friends quickly mounted the stairs.
Gold pails swinging, they passed between the snake and bird sculptures (“I think those are Aztec,” Max-Ernest whispered) and entered the Pavilion.

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
The Pavilion

The interior of the Pavilion seemed almost to be a continuation of the rainforest outside.
Long, flowering vines dripped from a glass ceiling, and potted palms rose up to meet them. A twisting pattern of interwoven leaves and branches spread across the tile floor. In the center, a pool of water surrounded a reproduction of the famous Aztec Sun Stone.*
Apart from the luxuriant foliage, and the young interlopers themselves, the Pavilion’s central room appeared empty. A deep silence pervaded the space, as if it hadn’t been occupied for years.
“Where do you think everyone’s gone?” whispered Max-Ernest. “It’s like it was abandoned.”
“I don’t know,” said Cass with a sinking feeling.
Including the front doors, the room had four exits: one for each point of the compass. They chose the one on the right—
Cautiously, Yo-Yoji pushed the door open. They found themselves tiptoeing into a long, curving hallway that seemed to circle the Pavilion’s central room.
The outer side of the hallway was a curving glass wall overlooking a seemingly endless conveyor belt: a chocolate factory spread out in a line. At the starting point, a pale gooey substance (cocoa butter, although they had no way of knowing it) poured in swirling ribbons into vats of chocolate sludge. Then various machines kneaded and stirred, mixed and molded, dipped and dropped, dusted and sprinkled. There were no human hands in sight.
It was a little like walking down the hall alongside a car wash, but instead of seeing your car being washed, you saw your chocolate being made.
“Man, why did they have to put this glass here? This is torture,” said Yo-Yoji, whose stomach was groaning with hunger.
As they watched, chocolates of all shapes and sizes and even colors passed by.
In addition to the traditional chocolate valentines and Easter bunnies, there was a chocolate zoo filled with tiger-shaped truffles, baboon bonbons, camel caramels, and kangaroo chews. A frosted volcano erupting with molten white chocolate. A dark chocolate lake spanned by a spun-sugar bridge. And an entire forest of miniature chocolate trees topped with powdered-sugar snow. (Or was the powdered sugar supposed to represent the mochachin monkeys? Our friends weren’t sure.)
More startlingly, there was a lifelike chocolate bust—the full head and shoulders—of a young boy.
“Hey, there’s that kid, Alexander, that the Skelton Sisters wanted to keep,” said Max-Ernest. “They made a mold out of him! How ’bout that?”
Cass remained silent. She couldn’t help imagining that the next person they saw cast in chocolate would be her mother.
But there were no more busts. Pride of place was given to Señor Hugo’s simple squares of chocolate. These came last, smooth dark bricks, individually tagged according to weight and purity, as if they were not just Palets d’Or, but actually gold bullion.
“C’mon,” said Cass. “The glass isn’t magically going to disappear if we wait.”
At the end of the hallway, there were two doors: one marked TEST KITCHEN, the other LIBRARY.
Max-Ernest pointed to the second door. “Let’s look in there first. Even if your mom’s not in there, maybe there’ll be some… information,” he said, obviously overcome with curiosity to see what the Midnight Sun’s library might hold.
Cass hesitated; the kitchen seemed like the more logical choice. But Max-Ernest opened the door without waiting for an answer.
There wasn’t a single book in the library. Instead, the wall facing them was entirely taken up by glass vials, each on an individual white shelf. While the vials were all identical, their contents varied in color and texture.
“It looks like the Symphony of Smells,” said Cass. “But times eleven.”*
Max-Ernest scanned the wall, mentally counting vials. “Times twelve, actually. Well, times twelve plus twelve. The Symphony of Smells had ninety-nine vials, remember? This one has one thousand two hundred.”
“So you think these are smells, too?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“I think they’re flavors,” said Cass. “If you read the labels—see, sour—number ten… umami—number six… umami is the taste of…”
“I know what it is,” said Yo-Yoji. “It was invented in Japan.”
“You mean discovered,” said Cass, slightly miffed. “You can’t invent a taste.” (I’m not sure Cass is exactly right about that, but I’ll let it go.)
“So then it’s a flavor library,” said Max-Ernest. “How ’bout that?”
The flavor library looked like a giant vending machine, and, as the kids discovered, it operated like one, too. On an adjoining wall, a control panel allowed them to choose one or more of the vials; a mechanical arm would then retrieve the vial and pour its contents into what looked like a high-tech milk-shake mixer.
In the end, a thimble-size glass of flavored liquid appeared on a tray in front of them.
The hungry kids started sampling flavors right away:
“I get kiwi-green olive seven.” “I want banana-butter.” “I’ve got dibs on cherry number six.”
“What about new car smell taste?” “Why would anybody want leather flavor?” “Better than mud flavor.”
“Yum.” “Yuck.” “Weird.” “Whoa.” “Hmm.” “Ick!”
“Do you think you can be allergic to the flavor of something, or does the food have to actually be there?” Max-Ernest wondered philosophically as he decided against tasting the taste of plastic.
“You know what, this is kind of cool, but it kind of sucks,” said Yo-Yoji, after trying at least a dozen flavors. “It’s just making me hungrier.”
“OK, time’s up,” said Cass. “It’s really lucky nobody has seen us yet.”
At the far side of the room was a swinging door beneath a sign that read TASTING ROOM. Cass peeked through the door window, and seeing no one on the other side, pushed the door open.
It was a bright, white, laboratory-like space.
A long marble table occupied the center of the room. On one side of the table was a low stone bench. On the other side, three tall silver chairs.
Although of course they’d never been there before, you will remember this as the room where Simone ate that perilous square of chocolate, the Palet d’Or.
As it happens, an identical square of chocolate was now sitting on a white plate in the middle of the table. To be exact, three identical squares of chocolate. The only bits of color in the otherwise all-white room.
“Finally some chocolate we can really eat!” said Yo-Yoji, immediately approaching the table. “And there’s even three of them…”
Max-Ernest looked askance at the chocolates. “Are you sure you should…?”
Cass shook her head in disbelief. “Don’t tell me you’re worried about stealing from the Midnight Sun? Why is this different from the flavors?”
“I don’t know, it’s just strange that they’re sitting out there like that. It looks like they’re waiting for somebody. Whoever it is could come in any second and if the chocolate’s missing, they’ll know somebody’s here. Plus, we don’t know what’s in it!”
Cass considered, then turned to Yo-Yoji. “He’s right. It is the Midnight Sun after all. They could be using these to poison people or something…”
“I don’t care, I’m starving!” Yo-Yoji popped one of the chocolates in his mouth.
His friends watched anxiously.
His eyes widened. “Oh no!” He clutched his throat and made gagging sounds. “I think I’m chok—”
Then he burst into laughter. “Just kidding. Actually, it’s amazing. Usually, I like milk chocolate, not dark chocolate. But that was the best I ever had. Seriously. Kind of like the mud flavor, but in a good way.”
“Well, I can’t have it anyway ’cause of my allergy,” said Max-Ernest, unconvinced.
“Good, more for me. Cass, you gonna have yours?” Yo-Yoji asked, licking chocolate off the corner of his mouth.
Cass eyed the chocolate, trying to resist.
Then she nodded. She was too hungry to say no.
Max-Ernest watched, torn between jealousy and concern, as Cass devoured her piece of chocolate. She looked blissful.
“Wow, that was really… good.”
“Man, I wish there were more,” said Yo-Yoji, finishing Max-Ernest’s piece.
“Me, too. Maybe if we look—” Cass spun around, scanning the room.
Yo-Yoji nodded. “Yeah… Hai!”
“What?” Cass turned back to him, staggering a bit. “Whoa—that made me kind of dizzy.”
“Hai!” Yo-Yoji repeated.
Eyes rolling up into his head, he lurched forward and raised his right hand, clutching at the air.
“Yo-Yoji… are you OK?” asked Cass, still struggling to stand up straight. “Or are you joking around again?”
Yo-Yoji responded with more guttural sounds.
His eyes now closed, he kept moving his arm around as if he were wielding a weapon. He seemed to be in some kind of combat stance.
“I think he’s speaking Japanese,” said Max-Ernest, staring at their friend. “And maybe having a samurai sword fight…?”
“But Yo-Yoji doesn’t know Japanese. He only lived in Japan for a year…” She trailed off, her eyes glazing. She teetered on her feet.
Distressed, Max-Ernest reached for her. “Cass?”
“Mmm.” She murmured to herself, barely conscious. Max-Ernest had to use all his strength to hold her up.
“Yo-Yoji, help me!”
But far from being able to help, Yo-Yoji was groaning and clutching his side, as if fatally wounded.
Max-Ernest was becoming frantic. “Cass, wake up! You, too, Yo-Yoji!”
“Wake up… wake up…,” Cass repeated vaguely.
“If you guys are playing a joke, I think you should stop now,” said Max-Ernest. But they took no notice.
As Max-Ernest watched in horror, Yo-Yoji fell to the floor, writhing in pain.
Meanwhile, Cass continued to babble incoherently. Until Max-Ernest could hold her no longer, and she, too, fell to the floor, unconscious.
Before Max-Ernest could decide what to do, he heard the sound of footsteps approaching. Wildly, he looked around: there was only one exit—and it was in the direction the footsteps were coming from. There was no way he would be able to get out in time, let alone hide his friends.
Just over his head, sticking out of the wall, was a large grate. Gritting his teeth, he pried it open with his fingernails, revealing a dark air shaft. He pushed the grate into the air shaft, then pulled his gray tunic over his head and tossed it in with the grate; he didn’t think he’d be able to fit through the opening otherwise.
Using all his strength, he was just able to pull himself up into the air shaft and replace the grate before Señor Hugo, Dr. L, and Ms. Mauvais strode into the Tasting Room. Three white-tunic-and-white-glove-wearing Midnight Sun acolytes followed in their wake.
Oh no, Max-Ernest despaired. He could see the room’s new occupants only in bits and pieces—but those bits and pieces were more than enough.
Cass and Yo-Yoji were still moaning on the floor, Yo-Yoji murmuring in Japanese, Cass in some older, Renaissance-sounding version of English. Oddly, the newcomers didn’t appear very surprised to see them.
“It seems the boy must have some samurai in his blood,” said Dr. L. “But what of the girl? Is that her awful ancestor speaking through her?”
Ms. Mauvais smiled one of her almost-smiles. “Let us hope so.”
Max-Ernest shivered, but was uncertain himself whether it was from hearing Ms. Mauvais speak, or from the whoosh of the air being sucked in through the vent.
With a chill he realized where he was: in an air filtration system. Forget the chocolate particles. All the dust in the room would be sucked through the grate in front of him. Horrified, he imagined hundreds of thousands of dust mites flying into his nostrils…
Unfortunately, there was no getting out at the moment. He lifted his shirt to cover his nose; it was all he could do to protect himself from the army of invading allergens.
Dr. L leaned down and felt each of the kids’ pulses in turn. He lifted their eyelids and opened their mouths, examining their reaction to the chocolate.
“I expect they will survive,” he said over his shoulder. “But in what condition I don’t know.”
“Where is the other one? The boy with two names?” asked Señor Hugo.
Ms. Mauvais snorted. “Max-Ernest? There’s no need to worry about him. He’s helpless on his own.”
Listening through the grate, Max-Ernest grimaced, insulted.
“Besides, his chocolate is gone. Wherever he is, he’ll lose consciousness soon. Somebody will find him. It’s the girl we want.”
“Maybe what you and I want are not the same,” said Señor Hugo.
“Who cares what you want?” Ms. Mauvais snapped. “If we do not find the Secret today, a great man will die!”
Ms. Mauvais motioned to her white-gloved henchmen. “Take the Japanese boy out of here—but leave the girl on the table.”
While Yo-Yoji was carried out, the unconscious Cass was laid out on her back on the marble table, as if she were about to be carved up and eaten for dinner.
Ms. Mauvais approached, and with her gloved hand pushed another square of chocolate between Cass’s lips.
“The Secret—what is the Secret?” Ms. Mauvais whispered. “We know you know it…”
As she spoke, Ms. Mauvais’s breath fell on Cass like a morning frost. Cass’s face grew paler and paler, and her ears turned a purple that bordered on blue.
*   *   *
Up in the air shaft, Max-Ernest frowned. Was it possible Cass knew the Secret and had never told him? How could she keep something like that to herself? Then again, she hadn’t told him about her mother being kidnapped. What other secrets might she hold?
He stared down at her, wondering if his best friend had just become a stranger.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
The Jester's Tent

She was in a tent. An old canvas tent that had been mended one too many times. Moonlight shone through the rips in the fabric, and a cold wind blew in from some faraway place, freezing the tips of her ears.
An oil lamp sat on the earthen floor, its weak flame flickering in the wind. Next to the lamp, an old man lay on a bed of hay. He wore a fraying old cap from which hung tarnished silver bells.
He coughed. She leaned down and touched his cheek.
“Grandfather, you are cold. I must get you out of this… this carnival tent and take you somewhere where there is a proper bed and a fire.”
Grandfather? Why had she called him that? He wasn’t one of her grandfathers—he was much older.… Unless… was she in… the future…?
Whoever he was, he raised his head in anger. “Carnival tent? What you call a carnival, I call my castle. Though its walls be ripped, I would not be ripped from it! We fall together, the tent and I.”
His head fell back into the hay; he had exhausted himself.
“Let me at least remove this old hat and wrap you in something warm. I have a scarf…”
She started to lift his hat, revealing his pale, pointy ears, remarkably similar to Cass’s own (save for the long, gray hairs sticking out of them). He stopped her with a brush of the hand.
“But this is my jester’s cap, the crown of my jokingdom!” said the old man. “I would die without it. And I must die within it!”
“Very well,” she said wearily. “But please. No more talk of death, Grandfather. I will not listen.”
The Jester. The old man was the Jester… So then she was in the past…
Or dreaming of it anyway…
But then who was she…? The Jester’s granddaughter. That would make her what… her own grandmother? No. More like great-great-great-grandmother.
“Do not try to protect me, my love,” said the Jester. “Death is like an old dog. He always knows when you are at his door.”
“And no more of your riddles either! I cannot bear them now.”
“You think it best that I do not jest. Yet I cannot be grave. How then should I behave?”
“I think it best… that you rest. I do not want you to catch plague. It is all over this wretched country.”
“You and your disasters. Hurricanes. Earthquakes. Plagues. You cannot be prepared for everything, you know.”
“And what is the harm in trying?”
“Enough—I do not want to argue. You are what I treasure most, so it is to you I must give my treasure.”
She started to cry, shedding the tears she had been holding back. “But I do not want your gold. I want only for you to live.”
“Oh, there is no gold, I speak of something you cannot hold.”
“What is it?”
“Something that cannot be told.”
“Grandfather!” she groaned. “Tell me what it is. Or go to sleep.”
“I just told you. It is something that cannot be told.”
“It is a secret?”
He nodded, pleased. “Very good, my child. It is indeed a secret.”
Now they were outside. In a meadow. The sun shone bright in the sky, turning the tall grass gold.
Although it was midday, her skin felt cool, as if it were evening. A breeze ruffled her hair, but she did not feel it.
The Jester was still with her. But now his hat was plush and plum-purple, its silver bells bright and sparkling like diamonds. Curly hair sprung out from under the hat and bounced around his pink cheeks and mischievous grin.
Behind them was his tent, also looking shiny and new, its red and white stripes rippling, its gold flag waving.
“What secret, Grandfather?”
“Grandfather?” The Jester laughed. “But I have yet no children! Would you have me miss being a father altogether, and skip to the grand finale?”
He did a back flip in the grass, showing off his youth and vigor. The bells on his hat tinkled merrily.
“What secret, Jester?”
“The Secret. The secret of secrets…”
They were at Cass’s school now. On the schoolyard. She recognized the handball courts. And Mrs. Johnson’s School Clean-Up Campaign posters. But they were alone; the school must have been closed.
The Jester was an old man again, but not yet bedridden. He was standing with his arm over her shoulder, supporting himself. His tent, once more in tatters, stood lopsided beside them on the asphalt.
“The Secret of the Terces Society?”
“The Secret does not belong to the Terces Society.”
“You know what I mean,” she said impatiently. “Is that the secret you’re talking about?”
He shrugged. “Is that the secret you wish to know most in the world?”
“Yes. No. What I want to know most is… who are my parents…? No, forget that—where is my mother? That’s what I need to know now. Is she OK? Can you help me find her?”
“Ah, but I cannot help you with that. She is of your time. To find your mother, you must wake up.”
“Then can you at least tell me…” She didn’t know how to phrase it.
“You wish to know who you are?”
“Yes. Who am I?”
“Ah, that is the question, isn’t it? To learn the Secret you must first learn your Secret.”
Cass tossed and turned, thrashing around on the hard cold surface, between wake and sleep.
Who am I? Who am I? What had the Jester just said? It was right there in the back of her head but she couldn’t hold on to it.
“Drink, Cassandra! Drink!” said a rough and unfriendly voice. Señor Hugo. “This is the antidote. Without it, you may never regain consciousness.”
His gloved hand poured some kind of milky liquid down her throat. It was chalky-tasting and made her cough, but she managed to drink most of it.
“Allow me.” Still barely conscious, Cass felt a familiar chill coming from the other side of the table. Ms. Mauvais.
“I have a more old-fashioned remedy. But perhaps more effective… Cass, wake up!” Ms. Mauvais’s gloved hand slapped her in the face—it stung.
“The Secret. Tell it to me. Quickly—”
“I can’t remember…,” Cass moaned. The milky liquid dribbled down her chin.
“You must remember.”
Cass opened her eyes.
She had a piercing headache and her stomach was in revolt. But it was the sight of Ms. Mauvais leaning over her that caused Cass to regurgitate Señor Hugo’s antidote—right onto Ms. Mauvais’s pristine white glove.
“Disgusting!” exclaimed Ms. Mauvais. “You are as rude as the Jester.”
Cass gasped. “How do you know about the Jester?”
Ms. Mauvais was about to pull off her soiled glove, then seemed to think better of it. She put out her hand and one of her henchmen handed her a towel.
“Never mind how I know,” she said, wiping furiously. “You were with him just now, weren’t you? Don’t lie—I can see it in your eyes. What did he tell you—? He told you the Secret, didn’t he?”
“Where’s my mother? I want to see my mother.”
“Tell me the Secret and you will see your mother.”
“I don’t know the Secret!”
“Liar!”
Cass retched again in answer.
“Darling, please,” said Dr. L, resting his own gloved hand on her bony shoulder. “Give the girl a second.”
“Very well. I will wait until she collects herself.”
Ms. Mauvais motioned to the henchman to mop up the mess.
“You disappoint me, Cassandra—I thought you’d be harder to catch. Those little chocolates—like cheese in a mousetrap. To think you’d fall for something so simple!”
“The chocolate was… a trap?” Cass asked feebly.
“Naturally. You didn’t think you could step onto this plantation without our knowing, did you? Or did you think my monkey was just being friendly?”
“You mean, you sent him for us?” She was still feeling too sick to be very upset.
“The mochachins are very highly trained, if you hadn’t noticed.”
“So you saw us enter the rainforest?”
“The rainforest?” Ms. Mauvais laughed her icy laugh. “Yes, we saw you enter the rainforest. We saw you enter the park. We saw you get on the train. We’ve been watching from the beginning. Did you not remember that we know where you live?”
“So you… wanted us to come?”
“Who do you think left the We magazine on your grandfathers’ doorstep? You should know by now there are no coincidences—especially lucky ones. Although, I admit, your acquiring the Tuning Fork for us was an unexpected bonus. We would have found it eventually, but you certainly helped. Thank you.”
“You’re not welcome.”
“You, Cassandra—you’ve been a thorn in my side since I first laid eyes on you. But now you’re going to be the solution to all my problems. There’s a kind of poetic justice to it, don’t you think?”
“How am I the solution?”
“Because of who you are…”
“What do you know about me?”
“Only everything. What do you think I’ve been doing since our last precious moments together? Once I realized who you were I started learning all I could… Would you like to know who your parents are? Tell me the Secret, and you’ll find out.”
Cass hesitated, beginning to remember snippets of her conversation with the Jester. “I don’t care who they are,” she said, not quite honestly. “Just let my mother go.”
“Very well, as you wish. We’ll release that poor woman you call your mother—when you tell me the Secret.”
“I told you—I don’t know the Secret. I can’t even remember what he said… And even if I knew, I wouldn’t tell you!” said Cass, finally feeling strong enough to sit up.
Was that true? she wondered. She wasn’t sure. Perhaps it was best that she didn’t know the Secret after all.
“I think I’ll put you in one of the old animal cages for a while,” said Ms. Mauvais. “Let’s see if sleeping on a cement floor helps you remember… Hugo, work on your recipe. The chocolate is not strong enough!”
She nodded to one of her acolytes, who then threw Cass roughly over his shoulder and followed Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L out of the room. Clenching his fist, Hugo exited as well.
After the Tasting Room had been empty for a few minutes, Max-Ernest, his T-shirt still covering his nose, pushed the grate out. Before he could grab it, the grate dropped out of the opening and fell noisily to the floor.
Max-Ernest froze, ready for the worst. But when nobody came he gingerly let himself out of the air shaft.
Standing alone in the room, he pulled his shirt off his nose and allowed himself to breathe freely again.
Now that he knew the Midnight Sun knew they were there, he wasn’t sure how useful a disguise the slave tunic would be. Nonetheless, he threw it back on. He found his golden pails where he’d stashed them under the table, but when he saw Cass’s backpack lying next to them he picked that up instead.
And then he proceeded to walk out of the Tasting Room.
Alone.
As dire as the situation seemed, luck was with him; he felt it. His allergy to chocolate had saved his life. Or nearly. He had plenty of other allergies. Perhaps they would protect him from any other dangers he would face.
What alarmed him most was the prospect that Cass might be keeping a secret as important as the Secret from him. But before confronting her, he would have to rescue her.
Now: how to get out of the building? Leaving the way they’d come in was out of the question. But there wasn’t an exit at the rear. Not that they’d seen anyway.
The Midnight Sun would never leave themselves without an emergency exit plan, Max-Ernest reasoned. That meant there must be some kind of escape hatch—probably in the floor somewhere.
Trying to hold on to the lucky feeling he’d had just a moment ago, he headed out of the room.

PART THREE
DESSERT

CHAPTER THIRTY
A SAMURAI IN THE RAINFOREST

A mask of brown glop covered the entire left side of Yo-Yoji’s face. It looked like molten chocolate. Alas, it was not. He lay on the ground where he’d been tossed an hour earlier. In a big pool of mud.
Above and around him: the dark, green gloom of the rainforest.
He blinked one muddy eye, then jerked awake.
He was not alone.
Moving with surprising speed, he pushed himself up—and threw himself into a backward roll. As he came vertical, he kicked both feet high—doing the splits in the air—and landed in a crouch.
A samurai warrior ready for combat.
In a flash, he picked up a long stick off the ground and pointed it at the neck of a big, menacing… shrub.
With glazed eyes, Yo-Yoji uttered a string of Japanese epithets, then struck the bush so hard that he chopped off the top, leaving the leaves on the bottom shaking.
He then bowed his head and started murmuring in Japanese. A haiku, honoring the life of the mighty enemy he’d just slain.*
For those with a penchant for poetry, the haiku, in rough translation (my Japanese is only so-so) went like this:

OH BRAVE WARRIOR,
A TREE FALLS IN THE FOREST,
YOU LIVE IN MY SWORD.

Note: Chapter 30 continues on page 313. You may skip to that page if you like, but I suggest reading Chapter 31 first.

CHAPTER THIRTY, PART TWO
The SAMURAI STRIKES AGAIN

Continued from page 303.
Max-Ernest’s hunch proved correct: the Midnight Sun had installed a trapdoor in the floor of a broom closet. He dropped down through it to the ground below, nearly spraining his ankle but not quite.
The underside of the Pavilion was nearly a full story high, and Max-Ernest could easily stand without hitting his head. Nonetheless, he walked in a crouch, trying to hide behind the pillars as much as possible.
As soon he was out from under the building he saw a line of muddy footprints leading into the rainforest—two sets going in, one going out.
Max-Ernest peered down at the smaller set. Sneakers. He didn’t remember the brand of Yo-Yoji’s prize pair, but he was certain these were his.
He followed the footprints, ducking branches and hopping tree roots, until he reached a large pool of muddy water.
Here Yo-Yoji’s footprints died.
Max-Ernest shuddered: could they have thrown Yo-Yoji in? In his condition, he almost certainly would have drowned.
Bracing himself for the worst, Max-Ernest started looking for a stick with which to poke the water.
“Hai!”
Startled, Max-Ernest turned. He didn’t see anyone. Who was it?
“Hai!”
The voice was low and deep. Almost a growl.
“Hai!”
It didn’t sound anything like Yo-Yoji, but when Max-Ernest pushed aside a bush (or what was once a bush) he saw his friend (or what was once his friend) brandishing a stick (or what was once a stick; it was now whittled into something more closely resembling a sword).
Aside from the fact that he had pulled up his long bangs into one those short forehead-ponytails worn by sumo wrestlers, Yoji-Yoji’s physical features had not changed. And yet he was utterly transformed. His facial expressions, his movements, the look in his eyes—all belonged to someone else.
“Hai!” said Yo-Yoji. He was facing Max-Ernest’s direction but seemed to be looking at a point beside or behind him, as if he couldn’t quite see Max-Ernest.
“Er, hi,” said Max-Ernest.
"せっしやの殿様はどなたじや?” Yo-Yoji asked. (At least Max-Ernest assumed it was a question, given the rising inflection at the end of the sentence.)"せっしやの殿様はどなたじや?”  
What had Dr. L said? That Yo-Yoji must have samurai in his blood. Could it be Yo-Yoji’s samurai ancestor standing in front of him? It made no sense. And yet this person most clearly was not Yo-Yoji. Yo-Yoji didn’t even speak Japanese.
“I’m sorry, Yo-Yoji, or whoever you are. I don’t understand.” "せっしやの殿様はどなたじや?" Yo-Yoji asked again. "せっしやの殿様はどなたじや?"
Max-Ernest scratched his head in consternation. How to respond? Then—of course! He reached into his pants pocket (he was still wearing them under his tunic) and pulled out what looked like a small handheld game player.
“OK, Yo-Yoji, now say that again!”
It was unclear whether or not Yo-Yoji understood. Nevertheless he obliged:"せっしやの殿様はどなたじや?"
 he repeated insistently. “せっしやの殿様はどなたじや?"
The translation was instant.
WHO IS MY MASTER? WHAT IS MY TASK?
Max-Ernest grinned as Yo-Yoji’s words appeared on the screen in his hand. (This was the Ultra-Decoder II, Max-Ernest secret decoding device that happened to contain thousands of languages in its memory. He and Pietro had added the voice recognition software earlier that summer.) It was like having his own private subtitles watching a Japanese movie.
Now what to say?
Max-Ernest thought about it for a moment, then shrugged: it was a worth a try.
I AM YOUR MASTER. YOUR TASK IS TO RESCUE OUR FRIEND CASS.
As soon as Max-Ernest had typed the words a clear brisk voice emitted from the Decoder: "われがそなたの殿しや4そなたの仕事は我たちの友、キャスを教土することじや，"
The trouble was: it was a woman’s voice.
Yo-Yoji looked at Max-Ernest in confusion.
Blushing, Max-Ernest made the necessary adjustments on the Decoder, and had it repeat the words, now in a male voice.
This time, Yo-Yoji nodded in recognition and bowed all the way until his nose was touching the ground.
he said gravely.
"お上樣、粘の刀はあなた襻のもの，！^の矓はあなた拽の篱です#私はあなた悚に從います,"
MASTER-SAN, MY SWORD IS YOUR SWORD. MY SPIRIT IS YOUR SPIRIT. I SHALL DO AS YOU SAY.
Max-Ernest nodded, and typed his response.
VERY GOOD, SAMURAI-SAN. CASS IS IN THE ANIMAL CAGES. WE MUST FIND THE OLD ZOO.
After the Decoder had translated Max-Ernest’s words into Japanese, Yo-Yoji bowed again. Then he proceeded to start slicing his way through the rainforest, blazing a trail back toward the Midnight Sun.
Max-Ernest followed in disbelief. It was like he was playing some kind of video game and Yo-Yoji was his samurai avatar.
End of Chapter 30.

CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE
Chocolate, she wrote.

A pair of large gloved hands threw Cass onto the cement floor of an old animal cage and closed the iron bars with an angry clang.
Blearily, Cass recognized her large lumbering jailer as Daisy, Ms. Mauvais’s toughest and most loyal servant. Had Daisy recognized Cass earlier after all? Had she just been playing her part in conspiring to get Cass to eat the chocolate?
The answer, judging by Daisy’s smug and self-satisfied expression, was YES.
What a sucker I am, Cass thought bitterly. She had come to rescue her mother, and she’d succeeded only in getting imprisoned herself!
Without saying anything, Daisy took up position as guard in front of Cass’s cage. A ring of keys hung from Daisy’s hip, tantalizingly out of reach.
Thinking of ways she could possibly snatch it, Cass fell back asleep.
An hour or so later, she stirred.
A girl of about her own age was hovering over her.
“Hi, you eat the chocolate, yes?” she asked in a thick French accent.
“Yeah, how did you know?”
“Your eyes. They do this—”
She rolled her eyes in the back of her head, so only the whites of her eyes showed.
“That’s a good trick,” said Cass, pushing herself up. “You could really make somebody think you were unconscious or crazy or something. Could be useful in an emergency or if somebody took you prisoner.”
“But I am a prisoner,” said Simone, not fully understanding. “My name is Simone.”
“Hi, I’m Cass.”
Simone looked at her in surprise. “Cass? Like Cassandra?”
“Yeah, why is that so weird?”
“You are the daughter of Melanie?”
Suddenly, Cass was sitting bolt upright.
“You know my mom?”
Simone nodded. “She is a very nice lady. For one day, she lived with me. She helped me speak English. Then they moved her because they do not want us to be friends.”
Cass grabbed Simone’s wrist. “Where is she now?”
“She is in jail also. There—” Simone pointed with her free hand to the cement wall next to them.
“She’s next door?” Cass couldn’t contain herself any longer. She moved over to the bars and shouted as loud as she could.
“Mom?!”
For a moment, there was no response. Then a tentative voice:
“Cass?”
“Yeah, I’m right next door!”
A tear rolled down Cass’s cheek. She was so relieved her mother was alive. And so sad they were both prisoners.
“What are you doing here, sweetheart? Did they take you, too? Are you OK?” Her mother sounded sick with worry.
“I’m fine, Mom!”
Mom. She’d said it without thinking. As if it were all she’d ever called her. And, Cass decided right then and there, it was all she would ever call her in the future.
“Quiet!” Daisy shouted, hitting their cage doors as she walked past them. “I’m going to eat my lunch now. If I hear another word, I’m putting my mamba in there with you. You’ll survive just long enough for your mother to hear you scream.”
Well, at least she’s learned something from Ms. Mauvais, Cass reflected: how to issue a good threat.
Simone muttered something in French that Cass took to mean she should do what Daisy said.
“Oh, I can handle Daisy—I have before,” Cass boasted.
Simone shrugged, pointing across the yard—
Daisy, now sitting down on a bench with her back to the cages, was adorned with a long green snake. Hissing, it slithered up her shoulder and around her neck. It glared menacingly at Cass.
Daisy nuzzled the back of the snake’s head, then offered it her sandwich. “Do you want a little yum yum, Peaches?” she asked loudly.
Peaches bared her fangs, then darted forward and swallowed the entire sandwich in a single bite.
“OK, maybe you’re right,” said Cass, slinking back against the stone wall.
“Your mother, she loves you very much,” whispered Simone. “You are very lucky.”
“Thanks, Simone,” said Cass, meaning it.
She closed her eyes. If Daisy looked over, she would think Cass had fallen back asleep. Meanwhile, her mind was racing. At last, she’d found her mother! There was some comfort just knowing they were so close. But how to communicate when Daisy was only twenty feet away? She could try tapping on the wall. But it looked so thick, she doubted her mother would hear. Besides, she was fairly certain her mother didn’t know Morse code.
She was awakened from her reverie by the sound of tapping— not on the wall next to her, but on the iron bars in front of her. It was the quetzal, the green bird who’d proven so helpful in locating the chocolate plantation. He was perched on the edge of the cement slab, tapping on the end of a bar.
Simone held out a small, broken piece of chocolate—the bird pecked it away.
“You are going to get very fat, my friend,” said Simone to the bird. She turned to Cass, explaining, “Now because I am here, and your mom is there—he thinks he can eat and eat and eat!” She spoke softly so as not to attract attention.
“You mean my mom feeds him, too?”
“Yes. He flies back and forth, back and forth.”
Cass thought about this for a minute, then glanced over at Daisy: luckily, she was still sitting on the bench, stroking her green mamba.
“Hey, do you have a pencil?”
Simone looked confused, so Cass picked up a piece of newspaper off the floor and mimed writing on it.
Simon smiled. “Ah, yes—for writing. Sorry, I have nothing… oh, wait, maybe this?” She handed Cass another small lump of chocolate. “Do not worry. It is the old chocolate. Not the kind that makes the dreams.”
“I’m not worried—I’m not going to eat it.”
Using the chocolate as a crayon, Cass wrote a note to her mother as quickly as possible. She was trying to finish before the chocolate melted in her hand.*

Dear Mom,
Sorry about what I said. You are my real mom and always will be. I love you.
Love, Cass
P.S. Simone gave me this chocolate. After you write back, give the bird the rest of it and hopefully he will bring the note back.

After she finished writing, she rolled up the piece of chocolate in the newspaper and placed it in front of the bird. She was afraid the bird wouldn’t take the note, since she had no more chocolate to offer. But the bird took pity—or perhaps hoped there would be more chocolate to come—and he readily gripped the scroll and flapped his wings.
About five minutes later, the quetzal landed in front of Cass’s cage with a flutter of wings. He seemed rather proud of himself.
In his claws, he clutched the roll of newspaper.
Checking again to make sure Daisy wasn’t watching, Cass reached through the bars and took the newspaper.
Turning so she wouldn’t be visible from the outside, she unfurled the paper. It was ripped and smudged—and, from the looks of it—nibbled by a chocolate-loving bird. But she could read most of what it said.

Cass,
Did you come to save me? That was very foolish but very typical of you. You are my hero. I'm the one who should apologize. I should have listened about Hugo. If we don't get out of here. I want you to know how much I love you. You are the only thing I care about in the world.
Love,
Mom

After reading the note three times, Cass folded it carefully, her eyes teary.
Her mother didn’t hate her! Even after the terrible thing Cass had said. Her mother thought she was a hero. Cass didn’t feel much like a hero—she couldn’t get over the fact that it was her fault her mother was here—but heroism was something to aspire to anyway.
Obviously, the heroic thing at this moment would be to stage a daring escape and then rescue her mom. But how could she do that with Daisy and her mamba guarding the zoo-jail?
As Cass contemplated this conundrum, she heard a bloodcurdling cry. It sounded oddly like—
Note: Chapter 31 continues on page 319.


CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE, PART TWO
THE SAMURAI'S TASK

Continued from page 312.
—a battle cry in an old samurai movie.
Daisy stood up, her face clouding with fury. “Go!” she ordered, releasing the mamba to the ground.
Faster than you would have thought possible, the mamba made a beeline through the grass. It bobbed up and down, in and out of view, as if riding across a series of invisible waves.
Watching its progress, Cass’s ears turned cold.
The snake’s target: Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest.
“Watch out!” Cass yelled. “The snake’s coming!”
“Too late for that!” Daisy sneered.
Running after Yo-Yoji, Max-Ernest typed furiously on his Decoder.
KILL THE SNAKE
Yo-Yoji charged forward, his sword-stick thrust out in front of him. But before he reached the snake, Max-Ernest, conscience-stricken, typed again.
NO. WAIT. KILLING BAD. TAME THE SNAKE.
Yo-Yoji stopped short.
"はいこ主人様。"
YES, MASTER.
By this time, the snake was only a foot away from them. It reared its head like an angry cobra, its tongue darting in and out between its long fangs.
Before the snake could strike, Yo-Yoji placed the hilt-end of the stick between his teeth and pointed the other end at the snake’s head. Moving with unexpected smoothness and fluidity, he lowered himself to the ground. Then, his belly in the grass, he stretched his arms backward against his sides and raised his chest upward—matching the snake’s posture.*
And he hissssssssssed.
Confused, the mamba slowed to a stop and stared at Yo-Yoji. Never blinking, Yo-Yoji stared back—one snake to another.
They communed for a moment, hissssssssssssing in unison. Until, in a hushed, sibilant voice, his teeth still gripping his sword-stick, Yo-Yoji recited another haiku.
Translated by Max-Ernest’s Decoder, it went as follows:
HE NEEDS NOT HIS FANGS.
AWAY THE MAMBA SLITHERS
AT ONE WITH THE GRASS
When he’d finished the haiku, Yo-Yoji bowed to the mamba and fell silent.
Darting out its tongue one last time, the mamba bowed to Yo-Yoji, and then took off across the grass, heading for the rainforest.
Daisy shrieked in dismay—“No!”—and started running after the only creature that she’d ever loved. “Peaches! Come back!”
“Stop her!” yelled Cass from inside her cell.
Max-Ernest snapped into action—typing.
STOP HER!
Yo-Yoji nodded in acknowledgment, then leaped in front of Daisy, blocking her way with his stick.
“Get out of my way, punk!” she shouted.
Daisy tried to brush the sword-stick aside—tearing the palm of her glove as she did so.
“Aaah! My hand!”
She staggered backward, staring at her palm.
The stick had not drawn blood. It had done something worse. It had revealed her hand.
Her old, hard, calloused hand. As for the other members of the Midnight Sun, it was the one part of her body that told the truth.
“Get the keys!” yelled Cass.
GET THE KEYS! Max-Ernest typed.
While Daisy’s attention was still fixated on her hand, Max-Ernest pointed to the ring of keys hanging from her waist.
In a single motion, Yo-Yoji sliced the key ring off Daisy’s belt loop and caught it before it dropped to the ground.
Clutching her hand and wailing like a wounded animal, Daisy staggered after the snake. “Pea-ches!”
Yo-Yoji bowed low before Max-Ernest, offering the key ring as if it were a precious treasure, plundered in battle.
WHAT IS MY NEXT TASK, MASTER?
But by the time Yo-Yoji looked up, Max-Ernest was already running toward the animal cages.
Hand trembling, he unlocked Cass’s cage.
She grabbed the keys from him, along with her backpack. “Mom, I’m coming!”
End of Chapter 31.

CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO
mom

Cass buried her face in her mother’s shoulder. The smells were comforting—coffee, bran muffins, printer ink, and not the slightest hint of chocolate.
“I missed you so much,” said Cass.
“Well, I’m right here,” said her mom. “Thank goodness you’re all right… I have so much to tell you. I’ve been thinking, if you really want to find your birth parents, I’ll help. It’s not fair to let my fears get in the way.”
Cass extracted herself from the long hug. “Thanks. But can we talk about that later?”
Her mother nodded. “You’re right. First things first. You wouldn’t believe what’s going on here! There are child slaves, chocolate monkeys… I have to get to a phone!”
If she only knew, Cass thought. Part of her wanted to try to explain where they really were and what was really happening. But there were certain things mothers were just not meant to hear.
“I know, Mom. We have to get you out of here.”
“Get me out of here? I have to get you out of here! I know it might not seem like it right now, but I’m the grown-up—you’re my child.”
“Hi, Mel,” said Max-Ernest, stepping forward. Yo-Yoji stood next to him, bowing to Cass’s mother.
“Max-Ernest? Yoji? You’re here, too?” She had been so excited to see her daughter she hadn’t noticed them when they’d sprung her from her cell.
"大后祛1お足元にひさまづいて敬いまする。なせなら仏は卑しいへビだからてす"
“Yoji? Are you speaking Japanese…?” She looked at him in confusion.
“He says, ‘It’s an honor to meet you, ma’am,’” said Max-Ernest, glancing down at his Decoder, which in fact said,
I THROW MYSELF AT YOUR FEET, MY QUEEN. FOR I AM JUST A LOWLY SNAKE.
“That’s very nice, but we’ve met many times…”
“I’ll explain later,” said Cass quickly. “Now, can you just wait for us here for a minute?”
“What are you talking about? You better not be thinking of going somewhere without me,” said Cass’s mother, indignant. “The only way I’m letting you out of my sight is if you lock me up again.”
“Please. There’s something I have to do,” said Cass.
“What?”
“I can’t tell you, Mom. But I promise, if you do what I say now, I’ll do what you say for the rest of my life.”
“Ha. That’ll be the day.” Mel turned to Simone. “What’s going on here? I know my daughter. She’s always up to something… Simone, if you know anything, you need to tell me.”
“I’m sorry, I don’t understand,” said Simone, smiling apologetically. “My English…”
“Max-Ernest, Yo-Yoji, you guys are coming with me,” said Cass, ignoring her mother. “Simone, you, too. I need your help.”
Before her mother could stop her, she was striding away with her friends in tow.
As Mel watched in mute frustration, the quetzal emerged from the rainforest and followed the kids from above, flapping his tail in the wind.
The Tuning Fork.
As far as Cass was concerned, she couldn’t leave Wild World without it. She was responsible for giving it to Hugo and she had to get it back. It was too powerful, too awful an object to leave in the hands of the Midnight Sun.
It was also, Max-Ernest had explained, the key to restoring Yo-Yoji to his old self. Max-Ernest had watched Dr. L and Hugo use the Tuning Fork to create the antidote to the Palet d’Or; that was how they brought Cass back. If he wasn’t fed the antidote, Yo-Yoji might live the rest of his years as a samurai!
“Not that I would mind,” said Max-Ernest, struggling to keep up with her. “I mean, I’ve never been anybody’s master before, and it’s kind of convenient to have somebody to boss around like that. You think I could have him fight all the bullies at school?”
“You’ll have to have him fight me if you don’t help me find the Tuning Fork right now,” said Cass.
“OK, OK… where’d Yo-Yoji go, anyway?”
Simone pointed. “He is in the grass.”
The others turned—
“Oh, no,” said Cass. “Do you think he thinks he’s a snake now?”
Yo-Yoji was on his belly, slithering toward the rainforest.
“I dunno, maybe he hypnotized himself when he was hypnotizing the mamba…?”
“You better go give him his orders. Simone and I are going to go free some kids. Then I’m going to look for the Tuning Fork… I’ll meet you in the kitchen.”
Before Max-Ernest could argue, Cass was on her way. At this rate, it would be a while before he could ask her about what he’d heard.
About the Secret.
Shaking his head, he started walking after Yo-Yoji while typing,
COME BACK. YOU’RE NOT A SNAKE.

CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE
BAD NEWS

At first glance, it could have been an explorer’s hut in the most remote of jungles. But of course it was only a guesthouse hidden in the rainforest—the faux rainforest—behind the Pavilion.
Inside, Itamar—or what was once Itamar—lay on his back in a four-poster bed. His ancient face was so parched and shrunken he looked like the disinterred mummy of an Egyptian pharaoh.
Dr. L hovered over him, taking the measure of his skull with some kind of handheld laser. He jotted notes on a pad.
Ms. Mauvais walked in. “Is he…?” She broke off, uncharacteristically hesitant.
“Yes, he’s dead,” said Dr. L dispassionately. “More dead, I should say. So much of him has been dead for centuries.”
An emotion similar to grief appeared briefly on Ms. Mauvais’s frozen face—a small crack in a field of ice. “If only he could have lasted another day! We are so close.”
Slowly, she moved to the bedside and looked down at Itamar.
“I did cry over that horse,” she whispered. “It’s just that I never let anyone see.”
Dr. L raised an eyebrow. “You? Cry? What are you talking about?”
Ms. Mauvais reeled around, snapping out of it. “Nothing! You misheard me, that is all.”
“Itamar made you what you are, didn’t he? Just as you made me,” Dr. L reflected. “I wonder what I will feel when you die…”
Ms. Mauvais’s cold eyes flashed. “I will never die.”
“Doctor? Madame?” The Bald Man—the grim van driver who had identified himself earlier as the Wild World Operations manager—entered the office. “I’m sorry to have to tell you this, but the girl and her mother, they’ve escaped.”
Ms. Mauvais glared. “Then why are you wasting your time here? Find them! I assume all the children are being rounded up?”
“Don’t worry, we’re on it. But there’s one more thing…” The Bald Man hesitated. He clearly didn’t like being the bearer of bad news.
“Yes, spit it out,” said Dr. L.
“The police. They’ve been asking questions at the Wild World offices. They seem to know a lot…”
“The police!” scoffed Ms. Mauvais. “What do we care about the police?”
“Well, you may not care, but I don’t want to end up in jail!” said the Bald Man, agitated.
“Why? What did you tell them?” asked Dr. L.
“I didn’t.”
“Good. Now let’s make sure it stays that way.” Dr. L pointed the laser at the other man’s head. “How lucky that you’re bald. I hate the smell of burning hair.”
Dr. L watched beads of sweat gather on the Bald Man’s forehead, then he lowered the laser.
“Forget the police. Find the girl.”
He reached down and pressed a small button on the wall next to the bed. An alarm started to sound.

CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR
CHOCOLATE SNOWBALLS

It looked like the entire cacao plantation had been deserted. The monkeys had abandoned the trees. The slave children were nowhere to be seen. Even the golden pails were gone.
Cass and Simone ran into the warehouse. But it, too, was empty of life. The alarm echoed eerily.
“The Pavilion?” Cass asked.
Simone shook her head. “Kids are not allowed there. Unless…” She didn’t finish her sentence. It was not hard to imagine the orphans all being fed Hugo’s chocolate en masse. Or worse, turned into so many chocolate busts.
Chaos greeted them as they neared the once placid building.
They watched from the edge of the rainforest as five white-uniformed guards attempted to herd the gray-cloaked children—all still carrying their golden pails—in five different directions.
“Shouldn’t we take them back to the warehouse?”
“No! That’s where the police will look first!”
“Our orders are to hide them in the Pavilion.”
“Couldn’t they have at least left the buckets?!”
“Not a trace, said Dr. L!”
Finally, the guards managed to lead the children up the steps of the Pavilion. Still in their own slave tunics, Cass and Simone easily hid in the crush.
The quetzal circled above as they disappeared inside.
The crowd of children filled the central room, the loud din in complete contrast to the hush Cass and her friends had experienced when they first entered the building.
Cass surveyed her surroundings, weighing options. After a moment, her eyes alighted on one of the golden pails. She whispered something to Simone, who looked confused for a moment, then grinned in recognition.
“Pass it on—”
Simone nodded and whispered in the ear of the child closest to her. It was Alexander, the small boy whose ears the Skelton Sisters had nearly pulled off. His eyes widened, then he broke into a smile—a rusty smile that hadn’t lit up his face in years. (Cass was relieved to see his reaction; apparently, being cast in chocolate hadn’t done him any permanent hurt.)
“Pass it on—” said Simone.
He gladly whispered in the ear of the kid next to him. “Pass it on—”
Soon whispers filled the room.
“Pass it on—”
“Pass it on—”
“Pass it on—”
The guards looked around suspiciously:
“What’s going on here?”
“OK, line up against the wall, all of you, tallest to shortest!”
“No, shortest to tallest!”
“No, boys on the left, girls on the right!”
“Fine, just get them to settle down!”
As the guards debated amongst themselves, Alexander reached into his pail and dug out a fistful of monkey dung. With a look of intense concentration, he drew his hand back over his shoulder and flung it—splat!—into the forehead of an unsuspecting guard.
Before the other guards knew what was happening, a second boy threw a dung-ball at a second guard—splat! It landed on the second guard’s chest.
Meanwhile, Cass climbed onto the sundial in the center of the room and shouted, “OK, everybody ready? One… two… three… Now!”
All at once, all the kids in the room reached into their pails and, cheering, started throwing fistfuls at the guards. It was like a hailstorm of chocolate-colored snowballs.
The guards ducked, trying to defend themselves as their white tunics developed big, brown polka dots and their hair dripped with brown, oozing excrement.
“Ugh!”
“Disgusting!”
“No not my gloves!”
“Stop!”
“Let me out of here!”
“Now everybody—make a run for it!” Cass shouted.
Cheering, the kids tossed their pails in the air like college graduates tossing their hats. Then they threw their gray cloaks aside and poured out the front door.
“Simone, can you make sure they’re OK?” asked Cass, stepping back onto the floor.
Simone nodded and excitedly exited with the other kids.
A moment later, Cass was tiptoeing along the Pavilion’s curving outer hallway. The hallway seemed even longer than it had the first time she’d walked down it, and she kept expecting to be stopped at every turn.
She didn’t hear a sound until she reached the Test Kitchen door. Voices were coming from the other side.
She identified the speakers in her head as she listened:
“What do you mean the chocolate isn’t ready? We need it now!” (Ms. Mauvais)
“She’s right, Hugo. We’re out of time. Our cover is blown. We must burn the building down immediately.” (Dr. L)
“Burn it? What about the children you’ve just rounded up in there?” (Señor Hugo)
“What about them? They’re evidence. They must be destroyed.” (Ms. Mauvais)
There was silence. Then,
“Do whatever you have to do. But not my chocolate! I’ve spent years developing this chocolate—I won’t leave it. Not now.” (Señor Hugo)
“You have ten minutes. Then we burn. With you or without you.” (Ms. Mauvais)
A door swung open. Cass flattened herself against the wall, partly hidden by a potted palm. Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais strode past without so much as a glance in her direction.
Bracing herself, she walked into the Test Kitchen.
“Cassandra. Just who I was hoping to see.”
“Give it to me,” said Cass. She stood in the center of the room—by the stove—and held out her hand.
The Test Kitchen, she noticed, was all stainless steel and nearly identical to the kitchen Señor Hugo taught in. He must have had the room built specially.
The chef removed his dark glasses and stared at her with his one good eye. She tried her best to hold his gaze.
“Give you what?”
“You know what—the Tuning Fork.”
“Oh. I thought perhaps you meant the chocolate. I have made another piece for you. I think you will find it even stronger than the last. So strong it will tell you a secret. The Secret.”
“You told them it wasn’t ready. I heard you.”
“That’s because I knew they would try to kill me once they had the chocolate. Now take it. I must know if it works. If it does, I will become wealthy beyond measure.”
“I’m not really hungry right now. Thanks.”
“Take it.”
Cass hesitated, then took the chocolate from him.
“Eat.”
“Maybe later.” She reached around and dropped the chocolate into her backpack. Perhaps Pietro will want to have it analyzed, she thought.
“Where’s the Tuning Fork? I want it back. Now.”
Señor Hugo laughed. “What makes you think I would ever give it back to you?”
“You act like you’re this great chef, an artist—but you don’t really care about food or chocolate. All you care about is the Secret. You’re no better than Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L. You’re a hypocrite and a liar.”
“If I were you, I would think twice about crossing me.”
He gestured casually to the row of knives clinging to the long magnet behind him.
Cass shuddered, remembering his classroom knife demonstration. Unconsciously, she backed up against the opposite wall, crushing her backpack.
“I thought you said a real chef only needs one knife,” she said bravely. “That looks like a lot of knives.”
“Touché… but I was talking about a cooking knife. These are throwing knives.”
Without so much as a glance over his shoulder, he reached backward and pulled the first knife off the rack.
Whiz! Boing! In a fraction of a second, it flew through the air and landed in the wall next to Cass’s ear. She could hear a high-pitched hum as it vibrated back and forth.
“Just like a tuning fork, no?” the chef joked.
Whiz! Boing! A second knife flew through the air and landed next to her other ear.
“Oh, I’m sorry, I just realized I was cheating. I had my eye open. Let me try again… blind.”
Whiz! Boing! Whiz! Boing! Whiz! Boing!
His eye closed, the chef threw knife after knife, each landing closer to Cass than the last, until she was surrounded on all sides by knives—
Hugo opened his eye and grinned. “We should do a carnival act. You could be my assistant.” He looked the jeans-and-sweatshirt-wearing girl up and down. “Of course, you’d have to wear something a little more feminine. Perhaps sequins?”
Cass gritted her teeth. “Never.”
“Aiyeee!”
Yo-Yoji leapt into the room, sword-stick thrust forward.
On his head was a gleaming stock pot—his samurai helmet. In his free hand, was the lid to the pot—his samurai shield.
Max-Ernest followed, holding his Decoder aloft as if it too were a samurai weapon.
ENGAGE THE CHEF
"シェフと婚約しろ "
the Decoder translated.
"私は、シェフと結婚するのですか?"
YOU WANT ME TO MARRY THE CHEF?
Max-Ernest shook his head no and typed:
NO, FIGHT THE CHEF!
Yo-Yoji nodded, relieved. Then bowed to Hugo.
Never taking his eyes off his opponent, Yo-Yoji raised his sword-stick in the air.
BATTOJUTSU—MY SWORD IS DRAWN!
Hugo shook his head, incredulous. “What the heck are you doing?”
Yo-Yoji shrugged. A long ladle was resting on the counter next to Yo-Yoji. He picked it up and crossed it with his sword-stick, apparently thinking the ladle was another sword.
NITORYUU—THE TWO-SWORD METHOD!
As Max-Ernest translated, Yo-Yoji waited expectantly for Hugo to pick up his swords.
“That’s all right. I’ll just use one,” said Hugo, pulling the longest knife out of the wall behind Cass.
Yo-Yoji growled, his honor offended.
THEN I SHALL USE NONE!
Tossing his weapons aside, Yo-Yoji jumped into the air, and karate kicked the surprised Hugo in the stomach.
“Aarargh!” He staggered backward.
On the counter there was a large open can of what looked like melted chocolate. Cass grabbed the can and threw it at Hugo. Chocolate dripped down his face, covering his one good eye.
“There—now let’s see if you’re really so good at being blind!”
“How dare you!” exclaimed the outraged chef, stumbling around the room. He dropped his knife and held his eye with his hand.
Max-Ernest gasped in horror at the sight.
“Don’t worry—it’s not hot,” said Cass. “Just chocolate syrup.”
Max-Ernest nodded knowingly. “You know that’s what they used to use for blood in old black-and-white movies.”*
Cass gestured toward Yo-Yoji. “Tell him to hold Hugo for us.”
Grunting his assent, Yo-Yoji grabbed the struggling chef from behind. He picked up the soup ladle and held it to Hugo’s neck.
“Now, where’s the Tuning Fork?” asked Cass.
“And why would I tell you?” Hugo spat out.
“Because you have a sword pointed at your neck.” (She figured he wouldn’t know it was the ladle.)
“You wouldn’t dare—”
Yo-Yoji made a hissing sound, and suddenly the mamba emerged out of his collar. (It seems the snake had been hidden under his shirt all along.) Hissing in response, the snake traveled from Yo-Yoji’s shoulder to Señor Hugo’s.
The chef’s chocolate-covered eye blinked in fear.
Afraid to move a muscle, he stood stiff while the snake wrapped around his neck several times, then lazily licked chocolate syrup off his cheek.
“Now will you tell us?” asked Cass.
“It’s… right… here,” said Hugo through his teeth.
“Oh, there it is—” said Max-Ernest.
The end of the Fork’s handle was just visible, sticking out of the chef’s apron. He pulled it out.
Cass sighed with relief. “Great. Now tell Yo-Yoji to put Hugo in one of the cages and then come back,” she said, handing Yo-Yoji the key ring.
“Good idea,” said Max-Ernest, typing rapidly.
… AND TAKE THE SNAKE, he wrote for good measure.
Awaiting the return of her daughter, Mel paced up and down in front of the old animal cages as fretfully if she were still trapped inside.
Suddenly, a bearded face appeared over the top of the stone wall that surrounded the old zoo. The face was followed by a navy-blue uniform.
Is that a policeman? Mel wondered. I don’t think I’ve ever been so happy to see a cop!
One after another, a dozen men and women in police uniforms climbed over the wall. Actually, they didn’t all climb; some somersaulted, others catapulted, several made a human ladder. Had Cass’s mother been in a less agitated state of mind, she might have noted that they were an oddly acrobatic—not to mention an odd-looking—group of policemen. Preoccupied with her predicament, she stepped away from the cages and waved frantically to the bearded officer leading the charge.
“Officer—over here! You must help me, sir.”
“You mean, help me, ma’am,” said the officer, approaching calmly.
“Oh, I’m so sorry, Officer… ma’am!” said Cass’s mother, blushing with embarrassment.
“You can call me Myrtle. Now what seems to be the problem?”
As Cass’s mother tried to explain what was happening, Officer Myrtle (as you have probably guessed, she was none other than the circus’s bearded lady) was joined by a tall skinny cop, and a short squat one, officers Mickey and Morrie respectively (yes, they were none other than the clowns).
“We heard reports about some troublemaking kids breaking into the zoo after hours,” said Mickey, now cleaned up (or partly cleaned up; there were still some red and white smudges around his mouth). “Do you know anything about that…?”
“We think they may have escaped from juvie,” said Morrie. “Buncha lowdown nogood-niks!”
Cass’s mother drew herself up. “How dare you speak of my daughter and her friends that way! They’re very good kids. All three of them. They came to rescue me. And you must help us all get out of here right now… Hey, have I seen you two somewhere before?”
“Why, you been in trouble with the law?” asked Morrie. “You didn’t just break out of one of these cells by any chance…?”
“You sure look like a nice lady,” said Mickey. “But you know what they say about appearances…!”
The clowns shook their heads solemnly, as if they’d seen one too many nice-looking ladies turn out to be terrible crooks.
“Take those two, for instance—It certainly looks bad, but for all we know, there’s some totally innocent explanation.” Morrie nodded into the distance where Yo-Yoji was visible escorting Hugo at ladle-point, the snake still curled around the neck of the terrified chef.

CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE
The TUNING FORK

OK, time to make the antidote,” said Cass. “We have to hurry. I want to give it to Yo-Yoji as soon as he gets back.”
“We need a glass of milk,” said Max-Ernest.
“Milk? You’re sure?”
“Well, I’m not sure sure, but that’s what it looked like. It was white and foamy.”
Cass opened the door to the walk-in refrigerator. “I don’t see any milk.”
Max-Ernest frowned. “Hm. Now that I think about it, maybe it just turned white.”
“What do you mean?”
“Let’s try water.”
She turned on the tap and filled a glass.
“Now what?” she demanded, handing it to him.
“I don’t know, they just kind of stirred…”
Carefully, Max-Ernest lowered the ends of the Tuning Fork into the milk and swished them around experimentally.
Nothing happened.
“Well?”
“It’s not turning white.”
He tried shaking the fork sideways, then up and down. He spun it clockwise, then counterclockwise. Still nothing.
“You’re obviously doing it wrong.”
“OK, so you tell me what to do.”
“I’m not the one who saw it! Sorry—it’s just that we have to figure it out. Look at him—”
Yo-Yoji had just walked back into the kitchen.
WHAT IS MY NEXT TASK?
STAND STILL AND WAIT, Max-Ernest typed.
Yo-Yoji nodded gravely.
I WILL BE LIKE A STATUE.
He immediately froze in place. Not even blinking.
“You think there’s a clue on the fork?” Cass asked.
Max-Ernest pulled the fork out of the glass and held it up to the light. “There’re some kind of drawings but they’re really faded.”
“There’s supposed to be a bird and a snake.”
“Like by the front door here…?”
“Yeah… Wait—what are you thinking? I can tell by your face—”
“Nothing. I thought I remembered something, but I lost it…”
As Cass groaned in frustration, the door to the kitchen opened and Simone walked in. The quetzal was now sitting on her shoulder, pecking at her hair.
“Your police friends, they are here,” said Simone.
“Police? We don’t know any police,” said Max-Ernest. “Well, we don’t know know any. I mean, once or twice we met some. Like when—”
“They say they know you. A lady with a beard? A tall man and a short man?”
Cass grinned. “Oh, those police! Yeah, we know them.”
“They are with your mother now. I come to say good-bye.”
Simone whispered to the quetzal, then pulled a long green feather from its tail. The bird squawked but did not seem to mind too much.
“Here, this is for you, so you remember us,” said Simone, handing Cass the feather.
“Thanks,” said Cass. The feather was beautiful but she didn’t know exactly what to do with it.
“No, thank you,” said Simone. “Because of you I am free.”
“Wait—that’s it!” said Max-Ernest.
“What?” asked Simone.
“That—” said Max-Ernest, pointing to the quetzal.
“What about it?” asked Cass.
“Well, the Tuning Fork is Aztec, right? And what’s the most famous Aztec god? Quetzalcoatl. The bird-snake. How ’bout that? I read about him after we figured out the green bird was a quetzal.”
“So Quetzalcoatl is the key, then?” asked Cass.
“Maybe, maybe not. But it’s the only thing I can think of.”
“So what was he the god of?”
“The sky… creation… I think it said he invented books and the calendar.”
“The Tuning Fork takes you back in time, right? That’s kind of related to a calendar. Sort of.”
Max-Ernest nodded hesitantly. “Yeah, but I don’t know how to make a calendar out of a tuning fork.”
“What about a sundial?”
“No, I think I would have noticed if that’s how they made the antidote. Anyway, we’re inside. There’s no sun.”
“Duh, I just meant… I don’t know what I meant. Do you remember anything else about Quetzalcoatl? Think.”
“I’m trying!”
They looked over at Yo-Yoji—standing so still it looked like he might fall over. Time was clearly of the essence.
Cass took the Tuning Fork from Max-Ernest. “I see two stars, one on the top of the handle—or is that the bottom?—and one right here above the bird and snake.”
She showed him the engraved star, barely visible in the silver.
“I think I also read that Quetzalcoatl was considered the god of the Morning Star,” said Max-Ernest. “Maybe that’s what that is.”
“Kind of weird that the Midnight Sun would be into him then, isn’t it? And then what’s the other star?”
“Well, he had a twin brother—Xolotl, who was the Evening Star…”
“I’ll bet that’s it! Like to make you go back in the past, you need Quetzalcoatl. And to go back to the present you need Xolotl. Day then night.”
“Sounds good, but then what do I do with the Tuning Fork?”
Simone, who had been having trouble following the rapid-paced conversation, spoke up for the first time. “Maybe you just turn it upside down?”
It worked. Or seemed to. As soon as Max-Ernest dipped the end of the handle into the water, the water started to cloud. In seconds, there was an alarmingly large head of foam.
“Taste it,” said Cass, staring.
“No. Why?”
“I don’t know. To make sure.”
“But I don’t even know what it’s supposed to taste like. Plus I could be allergic.”
“To Aztec magic? OK, I’ll do it.”
“No! You don’t know what’s going to happen. It might take you back in time again.”
“Let me,” said Simone. “I know how to taste and not drink. It’s my job.”
She grabbed hold of the glass, closed her eyes, and took a tiny sip. She spit it out, making a face. Whatever the flavor was, it wasn’t her favorite.
“Vanilla,” she said, opening her eyes.
“Really?” asked Cass.
“Well, it makes sense doesn’t it? It’s the opposite of chocolate,” Max-Ernest pointed out. “And we’re looking for the antidote to chocolate, right? How ’bout that?”
Apparently, Yo-Yoji liked vanilla better than Simone did. He drank the antidote as readily as if it were a milk shake.
His transformation, however, was not immediate; it happened in stages. As he drank, he relaxed his military bearing and started walking in circles, a meditative expression on his face. He mumbled to himself. First in Japanese. Then, gradually, in words more intelligible to his friends.
“… What’s going on, yo?” he asked when he at last opened his eyes. He looked around, blinking, confused. “What happened? Where are we?”
“It’s kind of hard to explain,” said Max-Ernest. “But, in summary, you’re inside a kitchen inside a chocolate factory inside a rainforest inside a wild animal park.”
Quickly, Yo-Yoji’s friends filled him in on the rest. Or tried to. How do you explain to someone that his mind and body has just been possessed by a seventeenth-century samurai?
As Yo-Yoji began to absorb what had happened, a big grin broke out on his face. “Hey, do you think Master Wei will let me be her apprentice now? She always says, ‘To go forward you must first go back.’ Well, you gotta admit, I really went back!”
“I don’t know, it depends on what you mean by back,” said Max-Ernest. “You didn’t necessarily go back in time. At least your body didn’t. Maybe your mind…”
“Thanks for pointing that out,” said Yo-Yoji, annoyed.
Max-Ernest turned to Cass. “Guess it’s time to get out of here, huh?”
“Yeah, but first we have to get my mom.”
“Right.” Without thinking, Max-Ernest typed:
FIND CASS’S MOM.
And held his Decoder up to Yo-Yoji. It translated as usual into Japanese.
“Dude, why are you pointing that thing at me? What’s it saying?”
“Oh! Sorry. I forgot you spoke English again. I was just telling you your orders were to go find Cass’s mom.”
“My orders? From who?”
“Me, your mast…,” Max-Ernest stammered, reddening. “I mean, no one.”
Yo-Yoji laughed. “When did you turn into little general man? You giving me orders?—that’s hilarious! I’d really like to see that.”
Max-Ernest sighed. He was going to miss having his own personal samurai servant.
As they exited the pavilion, the kids saw the Bald Man and some of the dung-covered guards chasing after the escaped children.
“What’s wrong with you people?—letting these kids get the better of you like that! You should be ashamed of yourselves,” the Bald Man shouted at the guards. “Run as fast as you like, you’ll never get out of the gate!” he shouted at the children.
A familiar truck pulled up in front of Cass and her friends, splattering mud all over the already-splattered guards.
Owen, still in cowboy mode, hopped out of the cab.
“Howdy!” He tipped his hat, fully revealing his face to them for the first time. “Salutations, little lady… gents.”
Cass smiled, relieved. But also chagrined. She couldn’t believe she hadn’t recognized him earlier.
Before they could greet Owen and/or berate him for giving them such a hard time when they were entering the animal park, the Bald Man rushed up. “You can’t be here! This area is for… zoo employees only!”
“I thought it was for crazy evil alchemists only!” said Owen, his twang still in effect.
“What—?” the Bald Man sputtered. “If you know what’s good for you you’ll leave right now.”
“Funny, I was just going to ask you to leave. There’s a new sheriff in town. And the old one, looks like he’s not real popular with the kids around here.”
The Bald Man took a step forward, fist raised. “I don’t try to make myself popular.”
“You know what, I think I’ll give you that ride out of here myself,” said Owen. “Much friendlier—”
With that, he reached between the hay bales in the back of his truck and pulled out a long rope.
“Here, catch!”
As the Bald Man put up his hands, Owen tossed the rope around him, and hog-tied him to the truck.
Smiling, Owen addressed the rest of the dumbfounded and very dirty guards. “Now who’s next?”
“Ballyhoo!”
In a moment, the clearing was filled with uniformed police doing cartwheels and back flips. Not to mention swallowing swords—which Cass thought rather unhelpful under the circumstances.
The guards took one look at the “cops,” then took off running.
Myrtle, who could barely manage a slow waddle let alone the gymnastic feats of her colleagues, but who was nonetheless mighty strong in the arms, plunked Cass’s mother in front of Cass.
“So what’s all this about monkeys and child slaves?” asked Myrtle.
“You have to get them out of here,” said Cass. “I think there’s going to be a fire.”
Beep! Beep! Beep!
Loud horns and a jaunty circus tune signaled the arrival of a rainbow-colored VW Bug that looked like it had last been serviced in the 1960s. With a great squeal of brakes and a big cloud of smoke, the Bug stopped in front of the pavilion.
An oversized bumper sticker on the back read:
I BRAKE FOR ELEPHANTS
“Transportation for fifty, right here!” said Mickey, sticking his head out of the driver’s window.
“How are you going to fit everybody in there?” asked Max-Ernest. “That’s impossible.”
“Don’t worry, we do this all the time,” said Morrie, jumping out of the car. “Step right up, kids!”
He picked up the nearest child and dropped him feetfirst into the VW’s open sunroof. The child appeared to disappear as soon as he landed inside. (Although somebody standing close to the car might have heard a faint “Ow!” and then a “Why is it so dark??”)
The other children clamored for the chance to follow their mate.
“Me!” “No, me!” “My turn!”
As one child after another was tossed into the seemingly magic Bug, Simone climbed aboard the back of Owen’s truck with Cass and the others.
“Owen, he said he would take me to Africa,” said Simone, settling onto a hay bale next to Cass. “He says he knows a pilot that flies there all the time.”
“Oh, we know that pilot,” said Max-Ernest.
“I want to see my mom,” said Simone. “I want to go home.”
“I know what you mean,” said Cass, looking in the front window of the cab where her mom was talking animatedly to Owen. She couldn’t wait to go home either.

CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX
A STUFFED LION CUB AND A PURPLE GIRAFFE STRAW

From a distance, the couple mounting the tour bus in the Wild World parking lot would not have attracted much attention. Like so many other tourists at the animal park, they wore their new Go Wild! Wild World T-shirts above their plaid Bermuda shorts. The man wore a heavy camera around his neck, the woman wore dark wraparound sunglasses on her head. He carried a stuffed lion cub in his hand, she drank from an oversized cup with a purple giraffe straw. They looked exactly like everyone else who’d just spent a long hot day at the zoo.
Among the other passengers on their bus, however, they created a minor stir.
They were, first of all, so good-looking. He with his perfect tan face and perfect silver hair. She with her perfect porcelain skin and perfect gold bob.
At the same time, they acted so cool and aloof. They never smiled. They never spoke to anyone—not even to each other.
Were they foreign? Were they celebrities?
“I’ll bet they’re royalty!” somebody whispered.
Why hadn’t they been on the bus that morning? How had they gotten to the park?
“By limousine probably,” somebody guessed. “But it broke down. Or else their chauffeur just ran off with their daughter!”
Everyone had a theory.
And then there was that other odd fact about them—
“Mommy, why are they wearing gloves when it’s hot out?”
“Shh, honey!” The embarrassed mother shushed her son and smiled apologetically at the unnerving couple sitting two rows back. “It’s rude to point,” she whispered. “For all you know, they have a skin disease and they have to cover their hands. Don’t make them feel bad.”
Fascinated, the little boy stared at the strange couple. As he watched, the woman crumpled her kangaroo straw in half, and the man clenched the neck of his stuffed lion so tight that a seam burst in the poor lion’s head.
The boy burst into tears.

CHAPTER THIRTY-SEVEN
The Secret Keeper

Ha!
When she entered the CAT FOOD trailer three days later, Cass found Pietro and Mr. Wallace deep in conference around a small card table. They stopped speaking as soon as they saw her, leading her to believe (correctly) that she had been the subject of their discussion.
“Cassandra! Un abbraccio, prego!” Pietro stood, opening his arms for an embrace.
“So you have the clown camp today, eh?” he asked, releasing her.
Cass forced a smile. “Yeah, I somehow convinced my mom that it was the best way to keep me out of trouble.”
“Ha!” Pietro laughed heartily.
Cass looked awkwardly from Pietro to Mr. Wallace, who was sitting in stony silence. “So can I talk to you guys for a second?”
“Of course. Anytime—” said Pietro.
Mr. Wallace appraised Cass with a grim eye. “We know what you want to know, Cassandra. And the answer is: we don’t know.”
“But you’re the one who gave me to my grandfathers!”
“That’s true. But I never met your parents. I don’t know where they’re living, or even if they are living. As far as I know, the names on your birth certificate were made up.”
“So why did you have me? How did you get me? I don’t understand.”
“Sit down, Cassandra,” said Pietro. He gestured to a nearby stool, which she reluctantly took.
“Your parents, they gave you up—for your own protection. So the Midnight Sun, it would not know where you were.”
“A lot of good that did!” said Cass bitterly.
“Believe me, I never meant for you to get involved with the Terces Soceity, let alone the Midnight Sun,” said Mr. Wallace. “But Pietro thought you were ready.”
“No,” Pietro corrected. “I knew the Midnight Sun was going to find her whether she was ready or not. And they did. Is it not better that she is with us?”
“Who am I?” Cass demanded. “Don’t talk about me in the third person.”
Mr. Wallace hesitated. “Oh, how I wish your grandfathers had destroyed that box!”
“Tell her, Wilton,” said Pietro.
“Can’t we at least wait until she is eighteen? Cass is an… energetic girl, I give you that. But such responsibility…!”
“Tell her, Wilton. Or I will. We have no choice. She knows too much already. They know too much. We’ve talked about this—”
“Very well. Cass, I know you take an interest in disasters. What is it you call yourself again?”
“A survivalist,” said Cass defensively. “And I don’t just call myself that.”
“Good. Because what I am about to tell you—it will demand all your survival skills and more.”
“What are you talking about?”
“Cass,” said Mr. Wallace solemnly, “you are the Secret Keeper. There is one every hundred years. Your job is to know what no one else knows. To keep what is hardest to keep.”
“You mean, I’m supposed to know the Secret?”
“That’s right.”
“I thought nobody was supposed to know it. I mean, not even you know it, right?”
“Nobody but you. Let’s say you are the exception that proves the rule.”
Cass sat in silence for a second, trying to grasp what he was saying.
“But how can I know it if nobody knows it? Is it written somewhere?”
Mr. Wallace shook his head.
“Then how am I supposed to…?”
“I think you already know the answer to that,” said Pietro, putting his hand on her shoulder.
But Cass wasn’t sure she did. She wasn’t sure at all.
Later that day, Cass stared out the window at the raggedy half-hole that was once Max-Ernest’s father’s half-house.
“It’s like the best day and the worst day ever at the same time.”
“I know,” said Max-Ernest, straddling the one-foot gap that had run down the length of his bedroom floor ever since his parents had attempted (only half-successfully) to put their two half-houses back together. “It’s like… you feel like you don’t know who you are.”
“Yeah, just like that,” said Cass, surprised but glad that Max-Ernest understood how she felt. As we know, he usually wasn’t very good at feelings.
“Like you’ve been living a lie all these years,” Max-Ernest continued.
“Uh-huh…”
“It’s almost like waking up in a different body.”
“Exactly!” Cass smiled gratefully.
“I mean, it was the last thing I expected… everything came back negative. Everything. How ’bout that?”
Cass looked at her friend in confusion. “Wait—I’m talking about me, you know, what Mr. Wallace told me about being the Secret Keeper and everything… What are you talking about?”
“My allergy test, of course. Haven’t you been listening to a word I’ve been saying?”
“Your allergy test?!”
“Yeah. The results came back. All negative.”
“You mean you’re allergic to everything?”
“Worse! I’m allergic to nothing! Look—” He turned around and pulled up his shirt so Cass could see his back. “You see anything? Like a welt or a rash?”
“Uh, not really. Just some dots.”
“See. How ’bout that? They pricked my back with all these chemicals and venoms, and I didn’t react to any of them!”
Disappointed, he turned back to face Cass. Now Cass was really confused.
“What’s wrong with that? You should be happy.”
“Happy? But it was my allergies that kept me alive. I didn’t eat Hugo’s chocolate ’cause of them… and now my parents talk to each other! My life is over!”
Cass laughed out loud. How could she respond to that?
“What? And now you think I’m funny, too? Everything is terrible.”
“Max-Ernest, listen to me. It wasn’t because of your allergies that you didn’t eat that chocolate, it was ’cause you were being smart. Yo-Yoji and I were being crazy. Anyway, the good news is you can try chocolate now.”
“I know,” said Max-Ernest, calming down. “Actually, I bought a chocolate bar as soon as I got the test results. But I’ve been too scared to eat it.”
“Well, where is it?”
“Frozen in a block of ice in the freezer.”
“Get it now.”
“Now?” Max-Ernest repeated, frightened.
“Yes, now.” She pointed to the door.
The expression on Max-Ernest’s face as he swallowed his first bite of chocolate can only be described as ecstatic. It was like a blind person seeing for the first time. Or like a baby discovering television.
“Now I get it!” he said. “Why didn’t you ever tell me how good chocolate was?”
“I don’t know. I guess I thought everybody knew.”
Max-Ernest shook his head. “What do you think would happen if I only ever ate chocolate for the rest of my life?”
“You’d get sick.”
“No, no, that’s not true!” Max-Ernest declared with all the fervor of a religious convert. “I read that it has these antioxidants. It makes you live longer. And you don’t get heart attacks. How ’bout that?”
As Max-Ernest rhapsodized about the wondrous health effects of his newfound love, chocolate, Cass thought about the strange, and possibly very unhealthy, effects of a certain chocolate bar in her possession. She’d been carrying it around in her backpack ever since Hugo gave it to her.
Suddenly, she realized why.
She already knew how to find the Secret, Pietro had told her. She’d thought he was talking nonsense, but now she understood.
She already knew the Secret—that was the point. The Secret was inside her. It was just that she had to dig it out.
With a solemn sense of determination, she reached into her backpack and pulled out the plastic baggie that contained Hugo’s last Palet d’Or.
Max-Ernest’s eyes lit up. “Is that more chocolate? Can I have it?”
“It’s Señor Hugo’s.”
“Oh. I’m not sure… do you think I should? I mean, it looks good… really good…” He reached for the chocolate, eyes glazed, mouth watering.
She snatched it away from him. “You can’t.”
“Why? You already had one.”
“It’s not for you.”
“Why? I want it. I have to make up for all the chocolate I never ate before.”
“Because I’m going to eat it,” she said. “He made it for me.”
“You are? What are you saying?! What was I saying?!” exclaimed Max-Ernest, coming to his senses. “We can’t eat that chocolate! Nobody can! It’s dangerous. Why would you want to do that again?”
“It’s just something I know I have to do. It’s like what Lily tells Yo-Yoji: to go forward you must first go back.”
“So you want to become a samurai? Or just charm a snake?”
“Neither. I’ll be going into my own past, remember? Or my own ancestors’ past.”
Max-Ernest stared at her. “You’re serious, huh?”
She nodded.
“Is it to find out the Secret?”
“In a way… it’s hard to explain.”
“To find out who your parents are?”
“Yes, but no. I mean, I know who my real parent is—my mom. But I still need to know who I am. That’s what I need to find out. Not the Secret. My secret. But it’s kind of the same thing. I think.”
“But what if you can’t come back? We don’t even have the Tuning Fork anymore.”
“Yes, we do.”
“I thought you gave it back to Mrs. Johnson.”
“I’m going to… just not yet.”
She pulled the infamous object out of her backpack. Her grandfathers had convinced her to return the Tuning Fork to the principal, and everyone else had agreed it would be best. But she’d been stalling as long as possible. As if she’d known she would being needing it again all along.
Max-Ernest was starting to panic. “But this chocolate is stronger, right? It could take you a hundred years to come back. What if everybody you know is old or dead and you’re still the same age? Or the reverse. You could come back really old but to everybody on Earth it will seem like only a second has passed. Or—”
“I’m not leaving Earth. I’ll be right here.”
“Sure, maybe your body will be… but your mind will be in a different dimension!”
“I trust you.”
“You… do?” Max-Ernest stammered. For some reason he wouldn’t have been able to explain, those three small words had brought tears to his eyes.
“Uh-huh. You’ll bring me back before anything goes wrong, I know you will… but Max-Ernest, if I do find out the Secret, I won’t be able to tell it to you—you know that, right? And that doesn’t mean I don’t trust you. It’s just because I can’t. Sometimes even best friends have to keep secrets from each other.”
Max-Ernest didn’t say anything. But after a moment, he nodded.
“Good,” said Cass, relieved. “OK, well, here goes—”
She raised the chocolate to her lips. Then paused. Like everyone, she’d often fantasized about time travel. But she’d never imagined that she’d actually do it. And certainly never like this. She was fairly confident that none of Max-Ernest’s dire science-fiction predictions would come true. Nevertheless, she had a feeling that when she came back—assuming she came back—nothing would be the same.
“Hey, Max-Ernest, just in case, well, tell my mom I love her.”
“No, Cass, don’t—!”
But Cass had already bit down on the chocolate bar.
“OK, I’ll tell her…,” Max-Ernest concluded.
He could tell she didn’t hear him. She was lost in the taste of chocolate.
The deepest, darkest chocolate of all time. 

A CHAPTER WITHOUT NUMBER Or Name

She was in the meadow again. But now it was night. A full moon reflected silver on the tall grass.
The taste of chocolate lingered in her mouth, a dim reminder of a faraway place she’d left, or so it seemed, long, long ago.
In front of her was the Jester’s tent, its candy-striped sides billowing in the breeze. As she stepped closer, a cloud passed over the moon, shrouding the tent in darkness.
Holding her breath, she parted the tent flaps and looked inside, ready to meet the Jester once more—
A fiery white glow blinded her eyes. It was as if she were staring into the center of a midnight sun.
THE
END

APPENDICES*

YO-YOJI E-MAIL #1 (from here)

Dude, just letting u know i will be offline for a wk. Camping w the ’rents on Mt Fuji so dad can finish that pollution study frum last yr. You know the rule—no electronic nothing in nature. (Not even music!!! Aaargh—Suckage!) Will check u out soon as I’m back. Hope Cass ok by then.

YO-YOJI E-MAIL #2 (from here)

Listen, Bro, u r being played harder than an air guitar in front of my bathroom mirror… Just got back from Fuji and saw yr e-mail about Benjamin. Sounded so random, the way he changed, so I did a little name search. Nohting… But then I looked up that school he went to, and guess who’s “head of school” at New Promethean… A guy named… drum roll, please… Luciano Bergamo. Uh-huh. Dr. Freakin’ L!!! Yep, Benjamin’s school was run by Midnight Sun! Dunno what it means… Spy??? Definitely NOT GOOD. Alert alert alert! Plz tell me when u get this so I can relax and go back to building game levels.

POPULAR WAYS TO DISGUISE YOUR BOOK

The Secret Series is meant to be secret! If you must carry your book in public, please disguise it first.

Groucho

Unknown Comic

Burglar

Ghost

Elvis


HOW TO BUILD YOUR OWN CAMERA OBSCURA

The camera obscura that Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji visited at the Renaissance Faire was so large, their entire class could fit inside, but you can also make a camera obscura small enough to fit in your hands.

What you'll need:

A small cardboard box-It should be about the size of a shoe box, but it should be a traditional brown corrugated box with four flaps on top rather than a lid.

Tracing paper-or some similar translucent paper, like vellum

Black tape-or other dark-colored tape

A medium- to large-size nail- as in hammer and nail, not fingernail

A blanket or large towel-a wizard's cape or spare toga would also work

To make the camera obscura:

Tape up the bottom side of the box-including the middle and the corners-so no light can get through the cracks.

Then take the nail and poke a hole in the exact center of the bottom of the box. The hole should be just big enough to let light through, and the edges of the hole should be as clean and round as possible. This hole is your aperture-a fancy word that means opening.

Now set the box upright so the bottom is the bottom again.

OK, this is the trickiest part. Notice that the top of the box has four flaps: two larger outer flaps, and two smaller inner flaps. Open the larger flaps and close the smaller flaps. Then tape the sides of the smaller flaps to the bottom edges of the larger flaps so that the smaller flaps stay flat (level with the top of the box), and so no light gets through.

You should now have a box that is completely sealed except for one rectangular opening.

Cut a piece of tracing paper a little larger than the opening and tape it over the opening, keeping the tracing paper as smooth and taut as possible. This is going to be the "screen" of your camera obscura.

Construction is finished.

To use your camera obscura, you should be standing indoors and facing a bright window. Throw your towel, blanket, or cape over your head. Then hold the camera obscura in front of your face with the "screen" facing you and with the open flaps to either side. The aperture should not be covered by the blanket. But all the sides of the camera obscura should be. You don't want to see any light except what you see in your viewing screen.

On your screen, you should now be seeing an image of the window you're standing in front of. The image will be upside down. Wave your hand in front of the aperture: your hand will seem to wave in the opposite direction. Do not try to walk at the same time.
ONE-WAY STARING CONTEST*

SECRET SERIES F.A.Q.
AKA Frequently Annoying Questions… Oh sorry, I meant Frequently Asked Questions Q: Why?
A: Just why? You mean like why the Secret Series?

Q: Yeah.

A: Why not? (You knew that’s how I’d answer, didn’t you?)

Q: OK, then, here’s a real question. Why do the Midnight Sun members wear gloves? Is it simply a sign of membership, like a badge or a Scout patch?

A: No, they wear gloves because otherwise their hands will reveal their true age. For some as yet unknown reason, their powerful rejuvenating elixirs (which keep them alive for hundreds of years) do not work on their hands. Incidentally, this is why very young Midnight Sun members have no need to wear gloves.

Q: Is everything you write true? Did it really happen?

A: Yes. Well, no! I mean, I’m sorry, I can’t answer that. Just remember—all the names have been changed. For more information, I’m going to have to insist you speak to my lawyer.

Q: Could you ever be friends with somebody who didn’t like chocolate? 
A: No. Well, maybe, if they gave me chocolate anyway. A lot of chocolate. 

Q: Do you ever read your books after you write them?
A: Are you kidding? Don’t you think they’d be a little different if I did?

Q: What is the Secret?
A: I believe you’ve asked me that before.

Q: Why won’t you tell us the Secret?
A: Have you bothered to look up the word in the dictionary?


Q: I thought you said you couldn’t keep a secret.
A: OK, you got me.

Q: Admit it, you don’t really know the Secret.
A: A, that’s not a question. B, I wouldn’t tell you if I did.

Q: I hate you.
A: The feeling is mutual, I assure you.

Q: I don’t really hate you. I just want to know the Secret.
A: Then you’ll just have to read the next book, won’t you?

Q: Can’t you give me a hint?
A: Platypus.

Q: That’s the hint? Platypus?
Q: No. I just thought it sounded funny.

Q: I take it back. I do hate you.
A: I know.

*A MANIFESTO IS NOT A FIESTA FOR A MAN. IN FACT, IT IS NOT A FIESTA OF ANY KIND. IT IS NOT EVEN A FIESTO. RATHER, IT IS A STATEMENT OF PRINCIPLES. USUALLY POLITICAL OR ARTISTIC PRINCIPLES. BUT YOU COULD WRITE A MANIFESTO ABOUT ANYTHING. FOR INSTANCE, CHOCOLATE OR CHEESE. A PSEUDO-MANIFESTO IS EITHER A FAKE MANIFESTO OR A MANIFESTO WRITTEN BY PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH. SO PERHAPS I SHOULD HAVE CALLED IT A PSEUDO-PSEUDO-MANIFESTO. BEFORE READING FURTHER, WHY NOT WRITE YOUR OWN MANIFESTO? THEN YOU CAN SEE HOW MANY WAYS MY BOOK FAILS TO MEASURE UP TO YOUR IDEAS ABOUT THE WAY THINGS SHOULD BE. JUST DON’T TELL ME ABOUT IT.

*ALWAYS CONNECT TO WHAT YOU’RE CLIMBING WITH AT LEAST TWO FEET AND ONE HAND OR TWO HANDS AND ONE FOOT. YOU MIGHT REMEMBER THIS HELPFUL RULE FROM A HIGHLY EDUCATIONAL AND FRANKLY RATHER BRILLIANT BOOK CALLED IF YOU’RE READING THIS, IT’S TOO LATE.

*THIS WAS A DISTINCTION THAT MAX-ERNEST—WHO’D ALWAYS WANTED TO BE LAUGHED WITH, BUT WHO WAS FAR MORE OFTEN LAUGHED AT—WAS ONLY TOO AWARE OF.

*IF YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT A STOOL SAMPLE IS, PLEASE ASK SOMEBODY ELSE. I’D RATHER NOT HAVE TO EXPLAIN IT MYSELF—IT’S TOO DISTASTEFUL A SUBJECT.

*ANOTHER DISTINCTION THAT MAX-ERNEST, WHO’D ALWAYS LONGED TO BE FUNNY FUNNY BUT WHO WAS MOST OFTEN FUNNY WEIRD, KNEW ONLY TOO WELL.

*THOSE WEREN’T ACTUALLY THE WORDS IN MAX-ERNEST’S HEAD—I’M AFRAID I GOT A LITTLE CARRIED AWAY—BUT I CAN PROMISE YOU THEY GIVE A SENSE OF WHAT HE FELT.

*AGAIN I MUST APOLOGIZE FOR PUTTING WORDS IN MAX-ERNEST’S HEAD—AND FOR WAXING POETICAL (RATHER THAN PHILOSOPHICAL) AT SUCH A SERIOUS TIME. IT’S JUST THAT CHOCOLATE MAKES ME WANT TO RHYME. (GET IT—TIME, RHYME? OH NEVER MIME.)

*I TELL THE STORY OF CASS AND SEÑOR HUGO IN MUCH GREATER DETAIL IN MY LAST BOOK, THIS BOOK IS NOT GOOD FOR YOU. BUT IF YOU HAVEN’T READ THAT BOOK, I’D ADVISE AGAINST IT. AS IT HAPPENS, THE TITLE IS SOMETHING OF AN UNDERSTATEMENT. I HAD ORIGINALLY AND MORE ACCURATELY CALLED IT THIS BOOK IS ABSOLUTELY TERRIBLE FOR YOU, BUT MY PUBLISHERS WERE AFRAID THE TITLE WOULD SCARE READERS AWAY. THEY WANTED TO CALL IT THIS BOOK IS GOOD FOR YOU. I WAS ONLY ABLE TO SLIP IN THE NOT AT THE LAST MOMENT WHEN THEY WEREN’T LOOKING.

*IN CASE YOU DON’T REMEMBER THE FIRST WORD OF YO-YOJI’S BAND NAME (IT DOES APPEAR LATER IN THIS BOOK) OR IN CASE YOU’RE THE LAZY TYPE, THE DECODED E-MAIL IS INCLUDED IN THE APPENDIX. AS FOR HOW TO DECODE A KEYWORD CODE GENERALLY, YOU’LL FIND INSTRUCTIONS AT THE END OF MY FIRST BOOK. AND IF YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT THAT BOOK IS CALLED, WELL, YOU’RE NOT ALONE.

*AS YOU MIGHT GUESS FROM THEIR ATTIRE, A FOP IS A FASHIONABLE YOUNG MAN—SOME WOULD SAY TOO FASHIONABLE, BUT I SAY THERE IS NO SUCH THING.

*A JESTER’S OUTFIT, BY THE WAY, IS KNOWN AS A MOTLEY BECAUSE IT IS SUCH A MOTLEY MIX OF COLORS AND DESIGNS.

*THIS IS WHAT IS KNOWN AS THE SCIENCE OF DENDROCHRONOLOGY. BUT OF COURSE YOU KNEW THAT ALREADY.

*WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO CASS, I’VE NEVER UNDERSTOOD THE REASONING BEHIND THE EXPRESSION “ONLY IN YOUR HEAD.” AFTER ALL, SOMETHING CAN BE LOCATED IN YOUR HEAD AND NEVERTHELESS BE REAL. YOUR BRAIN, FOR INSTANCE, IS INSIDE YOUR HEAD. (UNLESS YOU’RE COMPLETELY BRAINLESS.)

*BY TRICK, MYRTLE HERE DOES NOT MEAN A CARD TRICK OR MAGIC TRICK. SHE DOESN’T EVEN MEAN THE KIND OF TRICK YOU PLAY REGULARLY ON THE BULLIES AT SCHOOL. (AT LEAST I HOPE YOU DO.) RATHER, IN TRICK-TAKING CARD GAMES LIKE BRIDGE, SPADES, HEARTS, AND PINOCHLE, A TRICK REFERS TO A SINGLE ROUND OF CARDS.

*IF YOU HAVE NOT READ “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE,” YOU CAN FIND IT IN MY SECOND BOOK, IF YOU’RE READING THIS, IT’S TOO LATE. ONE WORD OF CAUTION: AS MR. WALLACE, THE TERCES SOCIETY ARCHIVIST, POINTS OUT IN THE BOOK, “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE” WAS WRITTEN BY SOMEONE WITH LITERARY ASPIRATIONS. THAT IS TO SAY, HE MAY HAVE TAKEN LITERARY LICENSE, EMBELLISHING FACTS OR PERHAPS EVEN MAKING UP THINGS ALTOGETHER. YOU SHOULD READ IT WITH A GRAIN OF SALT—IN OTHER WORDS, AS YOU SHOULD ANY SHORT STORY OR NOVEL (EXCEPTING THIS ONE!).

*THE DIFFERENCE, AS MAX-ERNEST WOULD HAVE TOLD HER, IS THAT A PALACE IS A LUXURY RESIDENCE, DESIGNED TO COMFORT ROYALTY AND TO IMPRESS VISITORS; A CASTLE IS A FORTIFIED STRUCTURE BUILT TO WITHSTAND ENEMY ATTACK.

*OOPS. I BELIEVE I JUST LET SLIP THAT OUR HEROES’ SCHOOL WAS A MAGNET SCHOOL. OR RATHER, MRS. JOHNSON DID. OH WELL. TOO LATE. THAT PARTICULAR CAT IS OUT OF THE PROVERBIAL BAG….YOU PROBABLY KNOW WHAT A MAGNET SCHOOL IS. PERHAPS YOU ATTEND ONE YOURSELF? A MAGNET SCHOOL IS DESIGNED TO ATTRACT STUDENTS FROM ALL OVER A SCHOOL DISTRICT WHO MIGHT NOT OTHERWISE GO TO SCHOOL TOGETHER; THIS IS WHAT IS KNOWN AS DIVERSITY. TO ACHIEVE THIS GOAL, MOST MAGNET SCHOOLS SPECIALIZE IN A CERTAIN SUBJECT. BUT OUR HEROES’ SCHOOL WASN’T AN ART MAGNET OR A SCIENCE MAGNET OR A SPORTS MAGNET. IT WAS JUST A MAGNET—OR AS MAX-ERNEST CALLED IT, A MAGNET MAGNET. FOR YEARS, MRS. JOHNSON HAD BEEN TRYING TO COME UP WITH A MORE SPECIFIC MISSION FOR THE SCHOOL. AS THE PRINCIPAL WITH PRINCIPLES, HER FAVORITE IDEA WAS THAT THE SCHOOL BE A MANNERS MAGNET. BUT THE STUDENTS DISLIKED THIS IDEA SO MUCH THAT THEY REBELLED WITH A “MANNERS BOYCOTT.” YOU CAN IMAGINE WHAT THAT WAS LIKE. IT QUICKLY BECAME KNOWN AS THE REVOLTING REVOLT BECAUSE OF ALL THE BURPING, NOSE PICKING, MOUTH-FULL-OF-FOOD OPENING, AND, I’M SORRY TO REPORT, FARTING. MRS. JOHNSON GAVE IN VERY QUICKLY.

*I’M AFRAID I’M NOT SURE WHICH OF THESE DOG SOUNDS IS EXACTLY RIGHT. YOU WILL HAVE TO CHOOSE THE ONE YOU LIKE BEST. WHILE IT IS DIFFICULT TO RE-CREATE DIALOGUE THAT TOOK PLACE HUNDREDS OF YEARS AGO, IT IS PERHAPS MORE DIFFICULT TO RE-CREATE THE SPEECH OF ANIMALS… FROM ANY ERA. DID YOU KNOW THAT IN ALMOST EVERY LANGUAGE, A DOG’S BARK IS WRITTEN DIFFERENTLY? IN AFRIKAANS, FOR EXAMPLE, A BARK IS A BLAF; IN ESPERANTO, IT’S A VOJ; AND IN SWEDISH, IT’S A VOFF.

**I CALL THESE DOGS BEAGLES BECAUSE OF EASE OF FAMILIARITY. IN POINT OF FACT, HOWEVER, THEY WERE TALBOT HOUNDS, A PREDECESSOR OF THE MODERN BEAGLE.

*LORD PHARAOH, OF COURSE, WAS NEITHER LORD NOR PHARAOH BUT RATHER A SWISS DOCTOR WHO HAD RENAMED HIMSELF ONCE HE BECAME A MASTER ALCHEMIST. ABOUT LORD PHARAOH’S NAME, YOU MAY RECALL THAT MAX-ERNEST ONCE ASKED, “ISN’T THAT REDUNDANT? LIKE KING KING?” FUNNY, ISN’T IT?—GIVEN THE WAY MAX-ERNEST SEEMS TO REPEAT HIMSELF SO OFTEN.

**IT’S WORTH NOTING THAT IN HIS OLD AGE, THE HOMUNCULUS HIMSELF CLAIMED TO HAVE DINED WITH THE KING’S HOGS (AS OPPOSED TO DOGS). I THINK THIS FAILURE OF MEMORY ON HIS PART CAN BEST BE ASCRIBED TO THE PHENOMENON KNOWN AS “BELIEVING YOUR OWN PRESS.” SOMEWHERE ALONG THE LINE, HE MUST HAVE READ “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE” AND ACCEPTED THE LITERARY VERSION OF HIS LIFE AS THE TRUTH.

*THE ONE TIME HE’D SPOKEN TO GLOB, MAX-ERNEST HAD MENTIONED THAT GLOB AND BLOG WERE ANAGRAMS. “THEY HAVE ALL THE SAME LETTERS. LIKE WHEN YOU TRY TO FIND WORDS IN SCRABBLE OR BOGGLE. ACTUALLY, COME TO THINK OF IT, BOTH WORDS ARE CONTAINED IN THE NAME BOGGLE. HOW ’BOUT THAT?” HE’D MEANT THE COMMENT TO BE COMPLIMENTARY, BUT GLOB HAD TAKEN OFFENSE. “SO WHAT! GLOB BLOG IS STILL MINE. I CAME UP WITH IT MYSELF. I’VE NEVER EVEN PLAYED THAT,” SAID GLOB, AS IF MAX-ERNEST HAD IMPLIED THAT GLOB HAD STOLEN THE NAME OF HIS BLOG FROM A GAME OF BOGGLE.

*OFFICIALLY, THE NUTS TABLE WAS THE TABLE FOR KIDS WITH NUT ALLERGIES, AND FOR A LONG TIME MAX-ERNEST HAD WONDERED WHY IT WASN’T CALLED THE NO-NUTS TABLE. RECENTLY, MAX-ERNEST HAD FIGURED IT OUT: THE OTHER KIDS AT SCHOOL THOUGHT THAT THE KIDS AT THE NUTS TABLE WERE, YOU GUESSED IT, NUTS.

*IN FRENCH, TÊTE-À-TÊTE MEANS HEAD-TO-HEAD, AS IN A HEAD-TO-HEAD (OR HEART-TO-HEART) CONVERSATION. IN ENGLISH, IT MEANS YOU LIKE TO PEPPER YOUR SPEECH WITH PRETENTIOUS FRENCH PHRASES.

*AS A RULE, MAX-ERNEST DISLIKED FICTION. HE DIDN’T UNDERSTAND THE POINT OF READING ABOUT SOMETHING THAT WASN’T TRUE. BUT HE MADE AN EXCEPTION FOR MYSTERIES, BECAUSE THEY WERE LIKE PUZZLES OR RIDDLES, ONLY LONGER. THE HARDY BOYS BOOKS HAD BEEN HIS FAVORITE MYSTERIES WHEN HE WAS YOUNGER. NOW HE PREFERRED EDGAR ALLAN POE AND SHERLOCK HOLMES.

**IF YOU HAVEN’T HEARD OF SYNESTHESIA, YOU MIGHT CONSIDER CONSULTING THE FIRST BOOK IN THE SECRET SERIES. BUT I WARN YOU, IT WILL STILL MEAN CONFUSION—A CONFUSION OF THE SENSES, THAT IS.

*I COULD TELL YOU WHAT INSOUCIANCE MEANS IF I CHOSE TO, BUT I CAN’T BE TROUBLED AT THE MOMENT—IT’S FAR TOO SUNNY A DAY. (HINT: THE OPPOSITE OF INSOUCIANT IS ANXIOUS AND STRESSED OUT.) AS FOR SAVOIR FAIRE, IT MEANS KNOW WHAT TO DO IN FRENCH. IN ENGLISH, IT MEANS THE SAME THING TÊTE-À-TÊTE DOES, I.E., THAT YOU HAVE A PREDILECTION FOR PRETENTIOUS FRENCH PHRASES.

*WITHOUT GIVING TOO MUCH AWAY ABOUT HIS LOCATION, I CAN TELL YOU THAT MAX-ERNEST WAS NOWHERE CLOSE TO CHICAGO O’HARE AIRPORT, AND GETTING THERE ON HIS OWN WOULD HAVE BEEN VERY DIFFICULT FOR SOMEONE HIS AGE, TO SAY THE LEAST.

*ALSO, IT’S JUST POSSIBLE THAT MAX-ERNEST’S FEELINGS WERE A BIT HURT. PIETRO, OF COURSE, LOVED PRANKS, BUT THE KICK ME SIGN SEEMED UNNECESSARILY MEAN. COULDN’T THE MAGICIAN HAVE LEFT THE MESSAGE IN SOME OTHER WAY? I THINK MAX-ERNEST MAY HAVE DELAYED DECODING THE MESSAGE AS A SILENT AND FRANKLY INEFFECTIVE MEANS OF RETALIATION.

*I FEEL DUTY-BOUND TO POINT OUT HERE THAT WHILE A TRUE GOURMAND, THE HOMUNCULUS IS NOT IN FACT A CANNIBAL, AT LEAST NOT IN ALL SENSES OF THE WORD. IT IS TRUE THAT HE SOMETIMES EATS PEOPLE (ROASTED VILLAINS, MOSTLY), BUT SINCE HE IS NOT FULLY HUMAN HIMSELF, HE IS, ARGUABLY, NOT FULLY CANNIBALISTIC. IN ORDER TO BE A CANNIBAL, PROPERLY SPEAKING, HE WOULD HAVE TO EAT OTHER HOMUNCULI (WHETHER ROASTED, JELLIED, OR RAW). JUST AS A CANNIBAL SQUIRREL EATS SQUIRREL STEW, NOT HUMAN RAGOUT. UNFORTUNATELY, HE IS THE ONLY HOMUNCULUS IN EXISTENCE THAT I KNOW OF. ERGO, HE COULD NOT BECOME A CANNIBAL NO MATTER HOW HARD HE TRIED. NO, LET ME AMEND THAT: HE COULD EAT HIMSELF. AND KNOWING HIM, IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, HE WOULD.

*THE PRIME DIRECTIVE, A FAVORITE CONVERSATION TOPIC AT THE NUTS TABLE, IS THE FIRST RULE GUIDING THE STARFLEET ON STAR TREK. IT HOLDS THAT A SPACE TRAVELER MUST NOT INTERFERE WITH THE NATURAL DEVELOPMENT OF A PLANET THAT HAS NOT YET GAINED THE CAPACITY FOR INTERSTELLAR SPACE TRAVEL. OF COURSE, THIS IS A RULE THAT GETS BROKEN AGAIN AND AGAIN.

*A FINAL NOTE ON DIFFERENCES BETWEEN LEGEND AND REALITY:
IF YOU HAVE NOT READ “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE,” YOU MAY SKIP THIS FOOTNOTE. IF YOU HAVE READ IT, YOU WILL NO DOUBT NOTICE SEVERAL DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN THAT STORY AND THE CHAPTER ABOVE. ASIDE FROM THE DOGS/HOGS CONFUSION, WHICH CASS HERSELF NOTED, THERE ARE TWO MAJOR DISCREPANCIES THAT I FEEL I SHOULD ADDRESS. THE FIRST CONCERNS THE NAMING OF THE HOMUNCULUS. IN “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE,” THE HOMUNCULUS ADMITS TO THE JESTER IN THEIR VERY FIRST CONVERSATION THAT LORD PHARAOH’S HOUSEKEEPER OCCASIONALLY CALLS HIM “HER LITTLE CABBAGE FACE,” AND THE JESTER SEIZES ON THAT AS THE HOMUNCULUS’S NAME. AS FAR AS I KNOW, NO SUCH EXCHANGE OCCURRED IN REALITY—AT LEAST NOT AT THE TIME DESCRIBED. THE OTHER DISCREPANCY CONCERNS THE SOUND PRISM, THE MAGICAL BALL OF SOUND THAT THE JESTER PLAYS LIKE AN INSTRUMENT IN “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE” AND THAT CASS, MAX-ERNEST, AND YO-YOJI USE YEARS LATER TO SUMMON THE HOMUNCULUS. WHY DOES THE JESTER NOT HAVE THE SOUND PRISM IN THE TIME OF THIS BOOK, WE CANNOT HELP ASKING. I HAVE NO WAY OF KNOWING FOR CERTAIN, BUT I THINK THE EXPLANATION FOR BOTH DISCREPANCIES IS THE SAME. THOSE THINGS SIMPLY HAPPENED LATER. THAT IS TO SAY, THE HOMUNCULUS WAS NAMED LATER IN HIS LIFE, AND THE JESTER ACQUIRED THE SOUND PRISM LATER IN HIS. I BELIEVE THE AUTHOR OF “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE” MUST HAVE COLLAPSED TIME FOR HIS OWN LITERARY PURPOSES. MANY AUTHORS DO THIS. THAT IS WHY MEMOIRS IN PARTICULAR ARE NOTORIOUSLY UNRELIABLE.

*PURLOINED, AS EVERY ASPIRING BOOK THIEF SHOULD KNOW, MEANS STOLEN. THERE IS A FAMOUS STORY BY EDGAR ALLAN POE CALLED “THE PURLOINED LETTER.” IN THE STORY, NOBODY CAN FIGURE OUT WHERE THE PURLOINED LETTER HAS BEEN HIDDEN—UNTIL POE’S HERO, THE DETECTIVE DUPIN, REALIZES IT’S BEEN SITTING ON THE MANTELPIECE RIGHT IN FRONT OF EVERYBODY’S NOSE.

*EVEN TO GEOLOGISTS, A LODESTONE—ALSO KNOWN AS MAGNETITE—IS SOMEWHAT MYSTERIOUS. MOST NOW BELIEVE A LODESTONE GAINS ITS MAGNETIC FORCE WHEN IT IS STRUCK BY LIGHTNING, BUT NOBODY KNOWS FOR CERTAIN.

*THE BROTHERS WOULD BE PIETRO AND DR. L (THEN LUCIANO), OF COURSE. WHEN THEY WERE ONLY ELEVEN YEARS OLD, THEY USED THE SYMPHONY OF SMELLS TO COMMUNICATE IN SMELL-CODE AS PART OF THEIR CIRCUS ACT.

*FRUMENTY, IN CASE THEY DON’T HAVE IT WHERE YOU COME FROM, IS MADE FROM BOILED WHEAT. SOMETIMES CONSIDERED ENGLAND’S OLDEST DISH, IT WAS A MAINSTAY OF MEDIEVAL COOKERY, TRADITIONALLY SERVED WITH VENISON OR PORPOISE. (YES, VENISON, AS IN DEER, AND PORPOISE, AS IN DOLPHIN!)

*IF YOU’RE CURIOUS, THE PARIETAL LOBE IS THE PART OF YOUR BRAIN THAT INTEGRATES THE FIVE SENSES.

*GLOB HAD GIVEN MAX-ERNEST HIS LAST SAMPLE OF THE VOLCANO GUM AFTER BENJAMIN DID A LITTLE JUDICIOUS GLOBBY MIND READING AND GENTLY THREATENED TO TELL THE WORLD WHAT HE FOUND OUT. OUT OF RESPECT FOR THE DEAL THEY STRUCK, I WON’T REVEAL GLOB’S SHAMEFUL SECRETS HERE. ALL I WILL SAY IS THAT WHILE INSIGNIFICANT, THEY WERE PLENTIFUL.

*FOR THE CODE-CHALLENGED, A TRANSLATION OF THIS MESSAGE APPEARS IN THE APPENDIX ALONGSIDE YO-YOJI’S FIRST E-MAIL.

*PLEASE DON’T ASK ME WHAT JE NE SAIS QUOI MEANS; I’LL JUST SAY IT MEANS I DON’T KNOW WHAT.

*MEAD, WHICH YOU HAVE PERHAPS HEARD OF WITHOUT QUITE KNOWING WHAT IT WAS, IS A SORT OF WINE MADE FROM HONEY. ITS ORIGINS DATE BACK TO THE EARLIEST CIVILIZATIONS; IT WAS VERY POPULAR, FOR EXAMPLE, AMONG THE ANCIENT GREEKS. I WOULD NOT TRY IT IF I WERE YOU, HOWEVER. IN THE LEGEND OF BEOWULF, THE NORSEMEN WHO WERE ATTACKED BY THE MONSTER GRENDEL WERE FAMOUSLY DRUNK ON MEAD. APPARENTLY, THE MEAD GREATLY HINDERED THEM IN BATTLE—ALTHOUGH IT MAY HAVE DULLED THE PAIN A LITTLE.

*LEST I BE ACCUSED OF ENCOURAGING BAD GRAMMAR, I FEEL I MUST POINT OUT THAT, STRICTLY SPEAKING, THOSE LAST TWO WORDS SHOULD NOT HAVE READ EVEN HIM BUT RATHER EVEN HE. AS IN EVEN HE, MAX-ERNEST, COULD BE A MIND READER. BUT EVEN HE SOUNDS TOO STILTED, TOO UNNATURAL. EVEN FOR A STILTED AND UNNATURAL PERSON SUCH AS ME (I MEAN I!)

*CASS’S GRANDFATHERS ALWAYS INSISTED ON THE GRANDPA TITLE. IF CASS WAS THEIR SUBSTITUTE GRANDCHILD, THEN MAX-ERNEST, THEY SAID, WAS THEIR SUBSTITUTE SUBSTITUTE GRANDCHILD. OBVIOUSLY, THEY DEFINED FAMILY A BIT DIFFERENTLY THAN THE HOSPITAL DID.

*WARREN HARDING WAS THE TWENTY-NINTH PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES AND IS WIDELY REGARDED AS THE WORST. TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE, THERE IS NO NAVY SHIP NAMED AFTER HIM. NONETHELESS, I THINK WE SHOULD GIVE GRANDPA LARRY’S STORY THE BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT. PERHAPS, FOR EXAMPLE, THE WARREN HARDING WAS A NICKNAME FOR A DIFFERENTLY NAMED SHIP THAT HAPPENED TO HAVE PARTICULARLY BAD LUCK AT SEA.

*THESE ITEMS HAVE BEEN SELECTED BASED UPON YOUR CHOICE OF THE BOOK THIS ISN’T WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE BY PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH. IF YOU FEEL THE ITEMS HAVE BEEN SELECTED IN ERROR, OR YOU WOULD PREFER NOT TO HAVE YOUR PERSONAL TASTES PIGEONHOLED BY AN ANONYMOUS CORPORATE MACHINE, WELL, FRANKLY, THERE IS LITTLE YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT.

*HE KNEW FROM THE ONE HUNDRED SEVENTY-SEVEN TIMES HE HAD CLIMBED THE STAIRS THAT THERE WERE TWENTY-FOUR, BUT HE ALMOST ALWAYS COUNTED NONETHELESS.

*I HAPPEN TO KNOW THE OLDER MAX-ERNEST WASN’T RECOMMENDING ANY SUCH THING. IN FACT, HE WASN’T SPEAKING TO THE YOUNGER MAX-ERNEST AT ALL; HE WAS SPEAKING TO HIS CAT.

**IF YOU AREN’T FAMILIAR WITH SOCK MONSTERS, THEY ARE EXACTLY WHAT THEY SOUND LIKE: MONSTERS MADE OF OLD SOCKS (AND ASSORTED SCRAPS). CASS HAD A HABIT OF MAKING THEM IN MOMENTS OF STRESS.

*IN CASE YOU’RE WORRIED ABOUT IT, I HASTEN TO INFORM YOU THAT YO-YOJI’S GUITAR WAS A VERY LIGHTWEIGHT MODEL, UNLIKELY TO DO SERIOUS LASTING DAMAGE.

*I REFER, OF COURSE, TO KING SOLOMON’S FAMOUS OFFER TO SPLIT IN HALF A BABY THAT WAS CLAIMED BY TWO SEPARATE WOMEN. HE ASSUMED THAT A REAL MOTHER WOULD RATHER GIVE UP HER BABY THAN SEE IT IN PIECES. OBVIOUSLY, HE’D NEVER MET MAX-ERNEST’S PARENTS.

*NOTE: AS YOU PROBABLY KNOW, ON MOST BLOGS, NEWER POSTS APPEAR BEFORE OLDER ONES, SO YOU THE SEE MOST RECENT POST FIRST. HERE, FOR YOUR READING CONVENIENCE, I HAVE REARRANGED GLOB’S POSTS SO THEY NOW APPEAR IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER, OLDEST FIRST. I HAVE ALSO TAKEN THE LIBERTY OF CORRECTING A FEW TYPOS.

*YO-YOJI WAS RIGHT. YOU CAN MAKE A CAMERA OBSCURA YOURSELF. AND IT JUST SO HAPPENS YOU WILL FIND INSTRUCTIONS FOR DOING SO IN THE BACK OF THIS BOOK.

*WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO THE SECRETARY, I BELIEVE THE PLURAL OF CAMERA OBSCURA SHOULD BE CAMERAE OBSCURAE. IN OTHER RESPECTS, HER ACCOUNT IS CORRECT. NOBODY IS SURE HOW MANY ARTISTS USED CAMERAE OBSCURAE, BUT LEONARDO DA VINCI WROTE ABOUT THEM IN HIS NOTEBOOKS, AND VERMEER IS WIDELY BELIEVED TO HAVE USED ONE.

*APART FROM BEING AN EXPERT DECODER, MAX-ERNEST WAS A MUMBLER HIMSELF, AND HE’D ALWAYS BEEN VERY GOOD AT INTERPRETING THE SOUNDS BENJAMIN MADE—THAT IS, THE OLD BENJAMIN.

*I’M SORRY TO SAY THAT THE SEER IS INCORRECT—ABOUT FLIES AT LEAST. STRICTLY SPEAKING, A FLY HAS ONLY TWO EYES. EACH FLY EYE HAS HUNDREDS OF FACETS AND THEREFORE CAN SEE IN HUNDREDS OF DIRECTIONS—ERGO, THE MYTH THAT A FLY HAS EIGHT HUNDRED EYES.

*ON THE OFF-CHANCE THAT YOU HAVE NEVER COMPETED IN ANY MEDIEVAL TOURNAMENTS, I SHOULD TELL YOU THAT THE WORD QUINTAIN HERE REFERS TO THE TARGET AT WHICH THE KNIGHTS AIM THEIR LANCES. A HASTILUDE, MEANWHILE, IS ANY KIND OF MILITARY-STYLE GAME THAT WAS UNDERTAKEN IN THE MIDDLE AGES, BUT MOST ESPECIALLY A JOUST.

*MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS DID, IN FACT, FAMOUSLY PLOT AGAINST HER COUSIN QUEEN ELIZABETH VIA SECRET, CODED MESSAGES HIDDEN IN WINE BARRELS. UNLUCKILY FOR MARY, ELIZABETH’S SECRETARY HAPPENED TO BE ENGLAND’S PREMIER SPY AND CODEMASTER. HE CRACKED THE PLOTTERS’ CODE, AND A DOUBLE AGENT MONITORED THEIR COMMUNICATIONS. IN THE END, MARY’S FATE WAS NOT SETTLED VIA A JOUST, HOWEVER. SHE WAS FOUND GUILTY OF CONSPIRING TO KILL THE QUEEN AND SHE WAS EXECUTED.

*AS YOU MAY KNOW, DR. JOHN H. WATSON IS SHERLOCK HOLMES’S FRIEND AND OCCASIONAL PARTNER IN DETECTION, AS WELL AS THE NARRATOR OF THE SHERLOCK HOLMES STORIES. HE PLAYS THE ROLE KNOWN AS SECOND FIDDLE—A ROLE CASS WOULD NEVER WANT FOR HERSELF.

*APPENDICES IS A PLURAL FORM OF APPENDIX. IN THE PAST, I’VE CHOSEN TO EMPLOY THE SINGULAR FORM AT THE END OF MY BOOKS, BUT EVERY TIME I SEE THE WORD I THINK OF THE INTERNAL ORGAN OF THE SAME NAME AND IMAGINE AN OPERATION TO REMOVE THE APPENDIX FROM THE BOOK IN QUESTION. APPENDICES SOUNDS LESS MEDICAL TO MY EAR. ALSO IT IS ARGUABLY MORE CORRECT BECAUSE I ALWAYS HAVE MORE THAN ONE SECTION IN THE APPENDIX/APPENDICES OF MY BOOKS, AND EACH SECTION IS A KIND OF APPENDIX OF ITS OWN—AND PROBABLY SHOULD BE REMOVED BY A DOCTOR.

*YOU KNOW THE RULES: WHOEVER BLINKS FIRST LOSES.

This isn't what it looks like by Pseudonymous Bosch

FOR
SOFIA CAROLINA (SO NICE, THEY NAMED HER TWICE); IZZY AND JACK; ELIJAH ; ISABELLA ; KATE P. AND EMMA (EVEN IF SHE’S TOO OLD) BUT NOT MAY AGAIN (WOULDN’T BE FAIR); KATE G. AND SAM; ELLA AND MARGAUX; LILY WITH A Y, GIDEON, AND RUFUS; BUT NOT LILLI WITH AN I OR LUCAS OR MADELEINE (SEE BOOK TWO); AND NOT INDIA AND NATALIA, EITHER (WELL, MAYBE WE’LL LEAVE THAT OPEN FOR DISCUSSION); ALSO FOR AVA AND SYLVIE; LUCY AND LEVI; DULCE AND OLIVIA; TYLER X 2; IRIS; STASH; LORENZA; THE LOCAL COUSINS: LEV , DANTE, AND MOLLY; THE NORTHERN COUSINS: NAOMI , ELI, AND JACOB; THE MYSTERIOUS COUSIN , SOPHIA; AND FINALLY FOR NABU AND KIWI SKUNK AND MY “MOST ANNOYING FAN EVER” AND MY SECRET AGENT IN KENTUCKY AND ALL MY SECRET AGENTS EVERYWHERE

WARNINGS, 
DISCLAIMERS, 
FINE PRINT & ETC.

Do not read this book standing up. You may fall down from shock. • Do not read this book sitting down. A quick escape may be necessary. • Operating a moving vehicle or any kind of heavy machinery while reading this book is forbidden. It might distract you from the plot. • Prolonged exposure to this book may cause dizziness and, in extreme cases, paranoid delusions or even psychosis. If that is your idea of fun, by all means keep reading. If it’s not, then this isn’t your kind of book. • Use of this book for other than the intended purpose is not advised. While it may seem like an ideal projectile, the makers of this book cannot guarantee your safety if you throw it at someone.
There is always the possibility that that person will throw it back. • You should not read this book if the cover has been tampered with or removed. If you suspect that your book has been deliberately altered by your enemies, you should report it to the makers of this book. However, they will probably think you are crazy. Under no circumstances should you consult a doctor. He will definitely think you are crazy. • The contents of this book may appear to have shifted over time. Do not be alarmed. This is a natural occurrence that affects all books and does not necessarily mean that your book has rewritten itself. Then again, it might have. • Remember, nothing in this book is what it looks like.

PSEUDO-MANIFESTO*

1. Truth is only stranger than fiction if you’re a stranger to the truth. Which means you’re either a liar or you’re fictional.

2. A realistic story is a story lacking in imagination. (What does realistic mean, anyway? Would you say something is true-istic?)

3. I’ve never met a joke so bad I didn’t like it. Then again, I’ve never met a joke.

4. When in doubt, you can’t be wrong.

5. Whether it’s chocolate or socks, the rule is the same: the darker the better.

6. There is more to life than chocolate. There is, for example, cheese.

7. If a waiter accidentally serves you a burger with mayonnaise, it’s not enough for him to scrape it off. He must order you a new burger.

8. It’s pronounced sue DON im us.

9. Secret? What Secret?

10. I know you are, but what am I?

AUTHOR’S NOTE:

AT A CERTAIN POINT IN THE FIRST 150 PAGES OF THIS BOOK THERE WILL BE AN EMERGENCY DRILL. PLEASE FOLLOW ALL INSTRUCTIONS AND BEHAVE EXACTLY AS YOU WOULD IN A REAL EMERGENCY. THANK YOU.

P.B.

CHAPTER -TEN
goat! goat!

*AS YOU WILL DISCOVER, I HAVE NUMBERED THIS AND SEVERAL OTHER CHAPTERS NEGATIVELY, SO TO SPEAK. ALAS, I CANNOT TELL YOU WHY WITHOUT GIVING AWAY TOO MUCH. BUT IF YOU HAVE STUDIED INTEGERS, YOU MAY WELL BE ABLE TO GUESS. YOU KNOW, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT A NEGATIVE NUMBER IS A NUMBER WHOSE VALUE IS LESS THAN ZERO, AND THAT THE “HIGHER” THE NEGATIVE NUMBER IS, THE LOWER ITS VALUE. THUS, WHEN YOU ORDER TWO NEGATIVE NUMBERS IN SEQUENCE, THE HIGHER OF THE TWO ALWAYS COMES BEFORE (HINT, HINT) THE LOWER. NEGATIVE TEN COMES BEFORE NEGATIVE NINE, AND SO ON, UNTIL YOU GET TO ZERO AND THINGS TURN NORMAL—MORE OR LESS.

How shall I put this? I must choose my words carefully.
(I know how you are. Always ready to jump on my mistakes.) Somewhere, at some time, a girl walked down a road.
I say somewhere not because the where is secret, although it is. I say some time not because the when is secret, although it is. And I say a girl not because her name is secret, although it is.
No, I use these words because the girl herself did not know where she was. 
Or when.
Or who.

She had woken standing up. With her eyes open.
It was a very strange sensation. Like materializing out of nowhere.
Her fingers and toes tingled. The tips of her ears burned (whether from heat or cold she wouldn’t have been able to say).
Sunspots lingered in her eyes, blurring her vision. But when she looked up she saw there was no sun. The sky was cloudy.
Had she fainted? Did she have a concussion? (She knew that confusion and blurred vision were symptoms of concussion, but she couldn’t remember how she knew it.) She touched her head, but she found no injury.
Gradually, the sunspots disappeared and her vision cleared. She looked around. She had no idea where she was.
She seemed to be in the countryside, but of what country wasn’t immediately apparent. There were fields to either side of her, but they were dry and empty. Trees dotted the landscape but in no obvious pattern. There were no signs of life.
Be systematic, she told herself. If you retrace your steps, you’ll figure out where you are.
But she couldn’t remember a thing that had happened before she was where she was. It was as if she had been born a moment ago.
Who am I…?
The realization that she didn’t know her own name came over her belatedly, like a chill you don’t notice until you see your breath clouding in the air.
She felt uneasy but not exactly frightened. Real amnesia, she knew (although she couldn’t remember how she knew it), was exceedingly rare. Most likely, her memory would return in a moment.
She decided the best thing was to walk.
The walking was not easy. There were no signs or streetlights to guide the way. The road was not paved, and it was riddled with rocks and tree roots and mud holes.
She stumbled more than once, but she trudged forward. What else was there to do? An hour passed. Or maybe two. Or was it less?
She didn’t see anyone else. Until she did.
Ahead of her, just a few feet off the road, a little boy was climbing a big tree. Like a cat, he made his way on all fours out onto a long branch. Like a cat, he got stuck.
“Father… Father!”
His cries grew louder, but nobody came.
I wonder if he’ll recognize me, the girl thought. He could be my little brother for all I know. “Don’t worry, I’ll get you down!” she shouted.
If the boy heard her, he showed no sign. “Father!” he kept yelling.
An old hemp rope lay beneath the tree. The remains of a swing. The girl picked it up, then automatically started to climb the old and twisting tree trunk. As if it were the natural thing to do. As if she had rescued many other children before.
Remember the Three-Point Rule, she told herself. But she couldn’t remember how she knew the rule.*
“You shouldn’t climb up trees if you’re too scared to climb down,” she said when she came close to the boy.
He ignored her, continuing to yell for his father. It certainly didn’t seem as though he recognized her.
“Are you deaf? I’m trying to help….”
The boy’s shirt—little more than a rag—had caught on a branch. As soon as the girl started to untangle him, the boy jumped in fright—and almost fell out of the tree.
She gripped him tight. “Careful—” He screamed, “Goat! Goat!”
At least that’s what it sounded like. “Calm down—you’re OK.”
She gave him a pat of reassurance, but his cries only grew louder and more hysterical. “I’ll get you down, no problem.”
Expertly, she tied the rope to the tree. A Buntline Hitch Knot, she remembered the knot was called. But she didn’t remember how she knew the name.
She tugged on the boy’s shirt collar. He clung to the tree branch, refusing to move. “Goat! Goat!”
“Is there a goat down there? Is that what’s scaring you? Don’t worry, it won’t hurt you. Goats don’t eat people. Tin cans, tennis balls, maybe—but not little boys. Not usually, anyways.” She smiled to show she was joking, but he didn’t smile back.
Eventually, she coaxed him down by gently placing his hands on the rope—then forcibly pushing him off the branch.
“Pretend it’s a fire pole!” she called after him.
He slid down the rope, a look of terror on his face.
As soon as his feet hit the ground, the boy bolted. “You’re welcome,” said the girl under her breath.
In the distance, a man—presumably the boy’s father—waited. He wore a plumed hat, dark vest, and big, billowing sleeves. He looked like a musketeer.
He must be an actor, thought the girl. Maybe there is a theater nearby.
The boy was still crying about the goat as he jumped into his father’s arms. The girl waved. But the man didn’t acknowledge her.
Gee, people are really friendly around here, thought the girl.
Shaking her head, she returned to the road—and stepped right into a puddle. She grunted in annoyance.
As she shook water off her foot, she looked curiously at the puddle. The muddy water reflected blue sky and silver clouds and a flock of birds passing by.
But there was one reflection she could not see: her own. Not goat, she thought.
Ghost.

CHAPTER ONE 
A DEEP SLEEP
  
Max-Ernest arrived at the hospital at exactly 7:59 p.m.
A nurse waved cheerily from behind the front desk. "Hi , Max-Ernest! Just in time, as usual."
Visiting hours ended at eight. If he got there any later, he wouldn't be let in since he wasn't part of the patient's family. At least not the way the hospital defined it.
Max-Ernest waved back halfheartedly.
"C'mon, honey-let's see you turn that frown upside down. Don't forget-"
The nurse pointed over her shoulder to a poster of a puppy wearing a red clown nose.
LAUGHTER IS THE BEST MEDICINE!
  
Max-Ernest gritted his teeth and forced himself to smile.
That doesn't make any sense, he almost said. How can laughter always be the best medicine? What if there's a medicine that would save your life-like penicillin? Wouldn't that be the best? And what if you have a broken rib? Or lung cancer? Or asthma? Laughter would make it worse, not better. And whose laughter are we talking about, anyway? Your own or somebody else's? What if somebody is laughing at you instead of with you-is it still medicine then?! How 'bout that? Oh, and by the way, dogs don't laugh. Some scientists think that gorillas and chimpanzees laugh. But not dogs. Not even puppies with clown noses...!
But, and this will surprise you if you know anything about him, Max-Ernest didn't say a word. He just kept gritting his teeth and headed for the third elevator on the right.
The one marked PICU.
Every time Max-Ernest saw those four letters, he made up new meanings for them... Primates Invade Curious Universe... Penguins, Icelandic, Carry Umbrellas... Pick Icky Cuticle Up... Purple Insect Crawls Underground ... Principals In Colorful Underwear... People I Can't Understand ... and so on. But the word-play was simply an old habit, a mental tic, rather than a way of amusing himself. Not even the thought of principals in colorful underwear could make him laugh now, whether laughter was the best medicine or not.
He knew too well what the letters stood for.

PICU: Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Perhaps the least funny place on the planet.

Max-Ernest had a lot of experience with hospitals.
His childhood had been one long battery of medical tests. Skin tests. Bone tests. Eye tests. Hearing tests. DNA tests. IQ tests. (Too much ability, they said, is a disability.) Rorschach tests. Psychological evaluations. Neurological evaluations. Cardiological evaluations. X-rays and CAT scans. They’d tested all his reflexes and tested him for all the complexes. They’d watched him eat and listened to him sleep. They’d measured his dexterity and quantified his creativity. He’d given blood samples and urine samples and even once (though he’d like to forget it) a stool sample.*  
That Max-Ernest had a condition, everybody was certain; but what the condition was, nobody knew. The only thing the experts agreed on was that the main symptom was his ceaseless talking. Of course, it didn’t take an expert to tell you that.
A funny thing had happened recently, however. Funny weird, that is. Not funny funny.*  
Max-Ernest, the talker, had stopped talking. Not entirely. But almost. Most of the words he uttered now were single syllables—like yes or no—and they came out in little grunts, hardly recognizable as language.
It wasn’t so much that he couldn’t talk. There were still plenty of words in his head, and he could still push air out of his lungs and move his lips and tongue. It was just that talking had become a tremendous effort. Even more of an effort than it used to be for him not to talk. Words used to come out of his mouth in a nonstop torrent; shutting them off was like trying to dam a river. Now, suddenly, the river had switched direction, and talking was like trying to swim upstream when it was all he could do to swim in place.
This new condition, this unwilled silence, had fallen over him ten days ago. The day Cass had gone into the hospital. The day she had fallen into a coma.
“Not a coma like you’re thinking,” the doctor had hastily explained when she saw Cass’s mother react to the news, almost falling into a coma herself. “Not a coma like you see in the movies. Cass’s brain is very active. And she seems to be going in and out of REM cycles. She’s simply… asleep. In all likelihood, she’ll wake up very soon.”
Still, Max-Ernest knew, a coma was a coma. Even if it wasn’t a coma coma. Even if you called it sleep. After all, sleep was not not a coma. Max-Ernest had looked up the word in a dictionary: coma meant “deep sleep” in Greek.
His silence was very frustrating for the people around him. Especially for Cass’s mother and for the doctors and nurses who were trying to figure out what had happened to Cass. Max-Ernest admitted he’d been with Cass when it had happened, but whenever anybody asked him just what exactly it was, he would shrug or look off into the distance.
Without her coming right out and saying so, it was clear Cass’s mom thought he was hiding something. “Why is it Cass is always with you whenever—?” she started to ask at one point, but she didn’t finish her question. “Are you sure you didn’t—?” she started to ask another time, but she didn’t finish that question, either.
She hadn’t wanted to allow Max-Ernest in the hospital room, but Cass’s grandfathers had intervened and reminded her that Max-Ernest was Cass’s best friend.
“Cass would want him here—you know that,” said Grandpa Larry. “And the poor boy feels bad enough as it is—look at him.”
“Besides,” said Grandpa Wayne, “maybe the sound of his voice will wake her up.”
If only it were that simple! thought Max-Ernest. Then he would force himself to start talking again, no matter how hard it was. If he thought it would help, he would never stop talking. Not even to eat or sleep. Not even to breathe. He would take his old condition back a thousand times over if it meant curing Cass’s. He wanted his friend back more desperately than he’d ever wanted anything in his life.
Tonight, Cass’s mother was leaving early. Everyone at the hospital agreed it was time for her to get some sleep.
When she passed Max-Ernest in the hallway, she grabbed his wrist. Her eyes were red with tiredness.
“Max-Ernest, please, when are you going to…?”
Then she let go, as if she didn’t have the strength to ask the question. She walked away, shaking her head.
Max-Ernest opened his mouth for a second, then closed it without saying anything.
Cass’s mother was right; he was hiding something. But even if he’d been at liberty to speak, even if he hadn’t taken a sacred vow of secrecy, even if he’d risked all and told his story, nobody would have believed him. The truth was so incredible, so outlandish, so utterly bizarre, he would be branded as a liar, or delusional at best. So what was the point?
It was better not to say anything at all.

There was a vending machine next to Cass’s room.
Max-Ernest fumblingly fed a dollar into it and selected the largest and plainest chocolate bar available. He proceeded to eat the bar so fast, a passerby might have thought it was his first meal in weeks.
“Hmmgh…”
As he ate, he made a peculiar sound—part hum, part groan—that he made only when he was eating chocolate. A sound he couldn’t control any more than his urge to eat chocolate in the first place.
“Hmmgh… hmmmgh… hmmmmgh…”
Hardly hesitating, Max-Ernest bought three more chocolate bars and wolfed them down in as many bites. Then he bought a fifth bar and put it in his pocket for later. He looked into the machine, considering a sixth bar, but the machine was alarmingly empty-looking. At this rate it would run out of chocolate bars in less than a day.
The thought filled him with a sense of panic. Ever since he’d discovered he wasn’t allergic, Max-Ernest had been feasting on chocolate in quantities that would have astonished all but the most voracious chocolate eaters. Ten bars a day on average, if you had to count (and if you know Max-Ernest, you know he always had to count). What would he do, he worried now, if the hospital’s chocolate supply was not replenished?
How could he continue to visit Cass without the rich, ripe, dark, deep, zippy, zesty, wicked, wonderful, delicious, delightful, delectable, and even electable (if he could vote), vibrant, vivacious, seductive, addictive, oh-so-very-attractive, nourishing, flourishing, rather ravishing, beautiful, buttery, sometimes bittersweet but never bitter, gorgeous and worth gorging on, berry-ish, cherry-ish, meaty yet fruity, elemental yet complex, mellow yet electric, soothing yet energizing, earthy yet heavenly, melt-in-your-mouth pleasure of chocolate?*
He would have to plan ahead and carry chocolate with him—that was the answer to this particular dilemma—but the thought did nothing to reassure him. Normally, Cass was the plan-ahead person. Whenever they went on a mission for their secret organization, the Terces Society, Max-Ernest could count on Cass to pack her famous “super chip” trail mix, which contained a portion of chocolate chips so generous that the trail mix invariably melted into a big chocolaty clump. Alas, he had never tasted the trail mix because of his supposed allergies. It was something he’d been looking forward to. But now…? His panic was replaced by a wave of sadness.
Would his survivalist friend survive? Cass had spent her entire life preparing for disasters of one kind or another. Earthquakes. Hurricanes. Tornadoes. Not to mention the extinction-level events. Giant meteors. Global warming. Nuclear war. And here she was, done in by such a piddling thing? A mere trifle—indeed, a mere truffle. Had she trained all those years for toxic sludge only to succumb to toxic fudge?*
Yes, chocolate was the culprit.
Cass’s doctors had not been particularly surprised to find traces of chocolate in Cass’s stomach—she was a kid, after all—and had quickly dismissed it as a possible cause of her condition. Chocolate allergies were very rare, they said. And they hardly ever induced such severe reactions.
Max-Ernest could attest to that last point. His allergy, at any rate, had turned out to be a phantom. Nonetheless, he, and he alone, knew that it was a bite of chocolate that had brought on Cass’s coma.
Not just any chocolate, of course. Not chocolate like he ate every night from the hospital vending machine. Not chocolate chocolate.
No, this was extra-chocolaty chocolate. Extreme chocolate.
Extremely dark, that is. The darkest chocolate of all time.
Chocolate made with the legendary Tuning Fork—the magical (there was no other word to use, although it made Max-Ernest wince to think it) cooking instrument of the Aztecs.
Time Travel Chocolate, as Cass and Max-Ernest had come to think of it.
Chocolate that sent the eater back into her ancestral past. (Although whether or not Cass had in fact gone back into the past was debatable. After all, her body was still in the present. It was her mind that was gone.)
As the Secret Keeper, Cass held knowledge of the Secret—the very secret that the Terces Society was sworn to protect—buried in her ancestral memory.
The wicked master chef, Señor Hugo, had made the chocolate specifically for Cass so she would reveal the Secret to Hugo’s colleagues, those cunning alchemists known as the Masters of the Midnight Sun. (The Masters believed the Secret was the key to immortality and they would stop at nothing to uncover it.)*  
The first time Cass ate the chocolate, she’d been tricked into it and had only escaped giving away the Secret by the narrowest of margins. This last time, Cass had eaten the chocolate voluntarily—and against Max-Ernest’s explicit advice, as he often reminded himself—in order to learn the Secret herself.
As far as they knew, only a specially prepared antidote—a mysterious milky-white substance whipped up with the Tuning Fork—could bring her back to present-day reality. Cass had left the Tuning Fork with Max-Ernest so he could administer the same antidote the second time around.
But it didn’t work. She had eaten too much of the chocolate. Or he had made the antidote incorrectly. Or he had waited too long to give it to her (only five minutes, though it seemed like five hours). Or… Max-Ernest could think of dozens of things that might have gone wrong.
Before he could try again, Cass’s mother had unexpectedly arrived at Max-Ernest’s house to pick up Cass. As soon as she saw Cass lying unconscious on the floor, she called an ambulance
—and she’d barely left her daughter’s side since. Max-Ernest never had another chance to be alone with Cass.
Tonight was different. Tonight, Max-Ernest was determined to give her the antidote once more.
Not for the first time since Cass’s collapse, he wished their friend and fellow Terces member Yo-Yoji were there to help. But Yo-Yoji was back in Japan for two months with his family. Yo-Yoji had tried to persuade his parents to let him stay with Max-Ernest, but of course he wasn’t able to tell them the real reason he didn’t want to leave the country. Any mention of the Terces Society was strictly forbidden.
They’d e-mailed each other from time to time, encrypting their messages, naturally, with their usual keyword code. (Hint: keyword = first part of Yo-Yoji’s band name.) But the e-mails had only made Max-Ernest feel more isolated. The last one from Yo-Yoji had been particularly discouraging:*  

From: ohnoitsyoyo@xxxxx.com
Subject: fuji-bound
To: mdash@xxxxxxxxx.com

Euen, gust jnttfmc u hmow f wfjj ln obbjfmn bor a wh. Lakpfmc w tdn ’rnmts om Kt Bugf so eae iam bfmfsd tdat pojjutfom stuey bruk jast yr. You hmow tdn rujn—mo njnitromfi motdfmc fm maturn. (Mot nvnm kusfi!!! Aaarcd—Suihacn!) Wfjj idnih u out soom as F’k laih. Dopn Lass oh ly tdnm.

Stay cool, yo. Y-Y

\m/ (>.<) \m/ (Rock On!)
It was up to Max-Ernest to do the job alone.

For a moment, after he entered Cass’s room, Max-Ernest just stared. At the tubes going in and out of her. At the jagged green line on the monitor measuring her heart rate.
Eyes closed, lips still, her face was so expressionless she could have been anyone. Only the big, pointy ears were indisputably Cass’s. They twitched every once in a while as if to reassure Max-Ernest that, yes, in fact, this was his friend lying in front of him.
“Hi… Cass,” he said. Speaking was such an effort that his voice came out in monosyllabic squeaks. “It’s… me… I’m… here.”

He exhaled, relieved that the talking part was over. Then he pulled an ancient two-pronged instrument—the Tuning Fork—out of his jacket pocket, located a pitcher of water, and went to work.

Absorbed in his task, Max-Ernest didn’t notice his friend’s lips forming the word ghost again… and again…
and again… and again… and again…

CHAPTER -NINE
THE SEER
  
If I am a ghost, I must be dead.
The girl glanced down. To the rest of the world she might have been transparent, but to her own eyes her limbs looked solid. There was nothing she could see that indicated a death, whether recent or long ago. No sign of accident or bodily trauma. No evidence of decay or flesh-eating maggots. She looked nothing like the walking dead in a horror movie.
She tried holding her breath. Logically, a dead person should not need to breathe, but she soon found herself coughing for air.
She jumped up to see whether she would float or even fly—“Ow.”
Alas, the laws of gravity were in full effect.
(Actually, it didn’t hurt very much. Her exclamation was an instinctive reaction to a slight twist of her left ankle as she landed.)
As for her surroundings, they looked lifelike enough, even if she didn’t recognize where she was. If this was some kind of otherworldly limbo, it wasn’t what you’d imagine. There were no spooky wisps of fog. No lost souls wandering the streets.
She certainly didn’t feel dead. (Although how would you know what you would feel?) And yet she didn’t feel fully alive, either. She felt very little at all, really—very little physically, very little emotionally. It was as if her invisibility insulated her from the world, separating her from all experience.
She kept walking. What else was there to do?
Finally, a town—well, a few houses and a horse—appeared on the horizon. She quickened her pace.

Her first thought was that she had entered one of those Renaissance faires where people dress up in velvet tunics and green tights, or sometimes just burlap sacks and Birkenstocks, and say “Hear ye, hear ye!” over and over. She couldn’t remember the details, but she had a vague recollection of just such an event. (A school field trip, maybe? Did she go to school?) But here there were far fewer lords and ladies and far more peasants. Also, there were no funnel cakes or deep-fried Twinkies for sale, just muddy carrots and wilting cabbages. Mangy turkeys and scrawny chickens wandered loose, running in and out of the stalls and under carts. It could have been market day in a town square hundreds of years ago. The small thatched huts that surrounded the square looked surprisingly authentic. Perhaps it was not a faire but a movie set?
Whatever it was, it was very crowded, and the girl kept bumping into people as she walked. There was the meat-pie vendor whose pies she caused to land on several unlucky shoppers:
“Beslubbering boar-pig!” “Swag-bellied lout!” they complained.
And she nearly started a fight between two young fops in plumed hats and flouncy collars: “Clay-brained coxcomb!” “Mewling milk-livered maggot!”*  
Momentarily she forgot about her transparent condition and asked a kind-looking woman for the name of the town they were in. Rather than responding, the woman walked straight into her, crashing their heads together. Then she spun around in confusion, cursing loudly.

The girl hardly felt the impact—her senses were still quite dull—but it was disconcerting nonetheless. She felt a bit guilty about wreaking such havoc, and yet she couldn’t help admiring how skilled everyone here was at staying in character. (A theater camp for adult actors—could that be it?)
Avoiding further collisions as best she could, she made her way across the market, ducking here, weaving there, hoping for some sign that would tell her where she was.
She noticed that a small crowd had gathered in the center of the market. They cheered and jeered and generally seemed to be having a good time. Afraid she might start a riot if she pushed her way in, the girl stood on tiptoe and tried to see who or what was causing the commotion.
First, she caught sight of three potatoes sailing in and out of view as they were repeatedly tossed in the air. Then she saw the silvery shimmer of bells dangling from the three pointed ends of a hat. Finally, she made out a wiry young man in a diamond-patterned outfit—a jester—standing on a box of some sort.* He was juggling and telling jokes that were, judging by the groans of the crowd, more confusing than they were funny.  
She strained to listen.
“What dost thou say—that I have not sense?” he shouted at a heckler. “No, I have better, I have a sense of humor!”
The girl felt an unexpected jolt of recognition. What was it about him that seemed so familiar? Had she been a jester in her former life? She looked down at her jeans and sneakers—it hardly seemed likely. Perhaps she was raised in a circus, bouncing on the knee of a clown? That seemed like a better possibility. If she’d spent her childhood performing on a trapeze, that might explain why she was such a skilled climber. Then again, she really couldn’t imagine herself in a sparkly leotard.

When she reached a quieter corner of the market, she stopped to consider her options.
What to do next? She felt a sense of urgency, as though she had only a limited amount of time to accomplish a specific task. And yet, for all she knew, her time was infinite.
“Hail, young traveler.”
The girl turned to see an old, straggly-haired woman sitting on a tree stump under an old, straggly-limbed tree. In front of the woman were a larger tree stump that served as a table and another, smaller stump for a companion to sit on.
With a start, the girl realized the old woman was staring directly at her. “You can see me?”
The woman nodded. “I am a Seer. I have what they call second sight…. Sit. I will tell your fortune.”
The woman was so fair-skinned, her hair so white, she was almost colorless. She was barefoot and wore a plain cotton shift.
Her only ornament: a gold-rimmed monocle that magnified her pale, watery blue eye. “I don’t really believe in that,” said the girl, backing away.
“In what? Sitting?”
The girl hesitated. Who knew what she believed in? And what did it matter anyway? She might not believe in ghosts, but that didn’t mean she wasn’t one.
She felt in her pocket. “I don’t have any money.”
The woman smiled as if this were a grim joke. “Your money is no use here, I think. Please- " She motioned to the smaller tree stump. "What is your name, child?"
"I-Iam... ," the girl stammered, sitting. "I'm sorry, I don't know who I am." "Don't worry, the cards will tell us."
"Am I. .. dead?"
The girl waited, tense. She was not at all certain she wanted to hear the answer.
The Seer peered at the girl through the golden monocle. While the Seer's left eye was closed, her right eye seemed never to blink.
"I don't think so," the Seer said finally. "In my experience, the dead are much more sure of themselves. They can be very tiresome that way."
"So then I'm not a ghost?" asked the girl, relieved, but only just.
"There are many kinds of ghosts. Only some are ghosts of the dead. Others are simply the appearance of someone far away. A few even come from the future."
"The future?" repeated the girl, growing more confused by the minute.
Looking down, she noticed the multitude of concentric rings that made up the large tree stump in front of her. From somewhere in her past, she heard a kindly man's voice (whose? she couldn't remember) telling her that each ring represented a year's passing and that you could read the age of a tree by counting the rings.
"What year is it, anyway?" she asked.
But the Seer was no longer listening. Her eyes were closed and she was passing her hand over a deck of cards. The cards were well-worn and decorated with a pattern of moons and stars on their back sides.
As the girl watched, the Seer arranged ten cards facedown on the table. The girl rubbed her eyes. Unless she'd missed it, the Seer had never once touched the cards. Her hand had simply hovered over them.
Only after the middle card had flipped over-as if stirred by a breeze-did the Seer open her eyes and pick up her monocle.
The card was delicately painted with a picture of a slender youthstanding against a backdrop of billowing clouds. He was thrusting his sword forward while looking back over his shoulder.
PAGE OF SWORDS
"Ah, yes, the Page of Swords," said the Seer. "A stealthy card, the spy in the tarot deck. A natural for an invisible girl, yes? It means, I think, that you have been sent to this world on a mission."
"A mission? What kind?"
Ignoring the question, the Seer held her hand over a second card. By  the  time  her  hand moved away, the card had flipped over and was lying faceup across the first card. The second card bore a compass-like design framed in four directions by animals and crowned on top by a sphinx.
"Behold- the Wheel of Fortune." The Seer traced a circle in the air, and then an X. "You are at a crossroads. Which direction will you choose? This way you follow the angel, that way the eagle, this way the lion, that way the bull."
"How'm I supposed to know what that means?" asked the girl, staring at the card.
WHEEL OF FORTUNE
"Some say the Wheel means good luck, but do not trust it," said the Seer dismissively. "Your mission will go well or it will go badly. What is certain is that the Wheel will spin again."
"Thanks, that's really helpful," said the girl, who had lost her memory but not, evidently, her tendency toward sarcasm.
"The cards can only tell us what we already know," the Seer cautioned.
"But I don't even know where I'm supposed to be going. I don't know anything." "Patience."
The Seer turned over another card. (Or was it that the card turned itself over?) This one was decorated with an Egyptian motif. It showed a somber-looking woman sitting with a scroll in her hand and a crescent moon at her foot.
"Here is your destiny-the High Priestess. She is the bearer of secrets. Is it perhaps a secret that you seek?"
THE HIGH PRIESTESS
"Yeah... I think... I think maybe it is," said the girl slowly. "The Secret."
She didn't know where the thought had come from; nonetheless, a small flame had been lit in the darkness of her mind.
The Secret. She was seeking the Secret.
"The Secret, yes," said the Seer cryptically. "That is what we all seek in the end, isn't it?"
The Seer raised her hand slightly and another card was revealed. Unlike the others, it faced the girl rather than the Seer. The girl read the inscription: Ace of Wands.
ACE OF WANDS
"This fourth card takes us back to your distant past, to the foundation of your journey." The Seer shook her head sadly when she looked at the card. "See how it's upside down? It seems an old wrong must be righted. You will never rest until the wand is returned to its rightful position."
"What wrong? What wand?"
"It may be that something has been stolen from you. Or perhaps you have stolen from someone else?" The Seer shrugged. "Then again, sometimes a wand is just a wand."
"You mean like a magician's wand?"
"What other kind is there?" The Seer nodded with satisfaction as another card turned over. Here a robed man stood holding a wand aloft with his right hand while pointing downward with his left. The Magician, it read. "How else could you have gotten here-if not by magic?"
THE MAGICIAN
"How do I get out of here? That's what I want to know," said the girl, who was growing more irritable by the minute. "Or do I just click my heels and say, 'There's no place like home'?"
"As above, so below. As in this world, so in the other. This is why the Magician points upward and downward at the same time. I cannot tell you how to get from here to there. Only that your actions in this place will reflect in that one."
A sixth card turned over, and for the first time, the Seer looked surprised. "The Fool? But surely..."
THE FOOL
"What? Why is that weird?"
"The sixth card signals the goal of your quest. And yet the Fool is always the questioner. You." The Seer paused thoughtfully. "Perhaps it is you yourself you must find"
The girl looked at the card. And now it was her turn to be surprised. "What is it?" asked the Seer.
"A minute ago I saw a guy-a jester-who looked exactly like this. I kept thinking he looked familiar. And I think I just realized why"
The Seer raised her eyebrows. "The cards are more helpful than you expected?"
"Yeah, maybe," the girl admitted. "Hey, um, what's your name? In case I want to find you again or something".
"Me? My name is Clara. But most people call me Cassandra." She laughed. "They say I too often predict disaster."
Cassandra. Cassandra. The girl repeated it in her head.
"I see the prophet's name is known to you. You are a student of Greek mythology?" The girl smiled. "Not really, I just-I just know the name really well, that's all." Cassandra. Her name was Cassandra.
The Magician. The Jester. The Secret.
Her memories fell into place one after another, like cards in a deck.
She was indeed on a mission. A mission into the past. A mission to find the Jester. To find the Secret.
And to find herself.
She was the Secret Keeper, they had told her. It was time to learn what that meant.
When Cass's attention turned outward once more, the Seer was gone. Her tree stump perch was bare. And so too was her tree stump table. Save for a lone fly that flew away as soon as Cass noticed it.
Had she only imagined the encounter? Had it all been in her head?!
Cass’s eyes focused on the stump in front of her, the rings appeared to vibrate. Was she dreaming, or were there fewer rings now than previously? Did that mean that she’d gone further back in time? Or maybe the rings had represented her future and now she was solidly in the past? She was about to conclude that she was slowly going crazy, that she had imagined the tarot card reading and the change in the tree stump, when she noticed a shiny object on the ground in front of her. The Seer’s golden monocle.
Had the Seer left it for her intentionally? And if she looked into it, would she see what the Seer saw?
As she picked up the monocle, Cass noticed something odd about it: it was made of two lenses, one on top of the other. It was, in effect, a double monocle.
A double monocle that gives you second sight—it makes sense in a way, she thought.
With only the slightest bit of nervousness—what could she see, after all, that wasn’t already there?—Cass held up the Double Monocle to her eye and looked blinkingly through it.

CHAPTER TWO 
Tarocchino

Pietro’s circus never looked very inviting in the early morning hours. Tent flaps were closed. The shades in the trailers and vans were pulled down. And then there was all the stale kettle corn, half-eaten hot dogs, and over-chewed wads of gum strewn across the ground.
By the time Max-Ernest made his way to the clowns’ camper-van, the soles of his sneakers had doubled in thickness and long threads of cotton candy trailed through the dust behind him.
He hesitated at the door. If anybody knew where Pietro was, the clowns would, but interacting with the clowns was never easy. Screwing up his courage, he knocked—a little louder than he meant to.
“Who is it?—and don’t wake up the whole neighborhood!” came the muffled reply.
Max-Ernest opened the door and immediately started coughing uncontrollably. The van was so smoky, there might have been a campfire inside.
“It’s… Max… uh… Er… nest…,” he managed to spit out between coughs.
The clowns, Mickey and Morrie, were sitting across from each other at a small folding table. As usual, they looked completely disheveled, shirts buttoned incorrectly, traces of clown makeup on their unshaven faces, as though they’d just woken up—or else hadn’t slept in days. On one side of them sat Myrtle, the circus’s bearded lady, a pink-and-green housecoat hiding her ample girth. On the other side sat Pietro, the old magician and secret leader of the Terces Society, his bushy gray mustache still showing the remains of his breakfast.
All four were smoking fat cigars. Large playing cards fanned out in their hands. A big pile of coins beckoned from the middle of the table.
“Well, if it isn’t the two-named wonder!” joked Morrie, the shorter, fatter clown. “What do you think, Myrtle, would people pay to see him? Two names is almost like having two heads, isn’t it?”
“Yeah, maybe we could promote him as a split personality. Dr. Max and Ernest Hyde,” joked Mickey, the taller, skinnier clown.
“The only split personalities around here are going to be yours if you keep teasing that poor kid,” said Myrtle.
She picked up an oversized yellow hammer off the floor and waved it threateningly. Max-Ernest was relieved to see that the hammer was rubber, one of the clowns’ circus props.
He waved smoke away from his face. “Pi… e… tro… can… you… out… side?” he asked in a gasping whisper. It was still very hard for him to speak, but this was an emergency.
“Just wait the minute, Max-Ernest. This game, it is not over.” The magician’s Italian accent made all his words sound slightly comical and more than a little mischievous. As if a punch line were just around the corner.
“Just… for… a… sec… ond?”
Pietro shook his head. “I’m sorry, I cannot take my eyes off these clowns or they will steal the pot.”
Myrtle nodded sagely. “Sticky fingers, these two…” “Who—us little lambs? We never steal!” exclaimed Mickey. “Why should we? We cheat plenty good!” agreed Morrie.

“But… it’s… a… bout… Cass!” Max-Ernest protested. Pietro put his finger to his lips, shushing Max-Ernest.
Helpless, Max-Ernest sat down on top of one of the clowns’ costume trunks—a curly red wig spilled out the side—and resigned himself to watching the game.
“OK, my trick,” said Myrtle.* “Leading with wands. That would be the Ace of Wands,” she added smugly as she laid the card on the table.
Pietro smiled appreciatively. “Molto bene, my bearded partner!”
Max-Ernest craned his neck to see the card. He had assumed they were playing poker, but he’d never heard of an Ace of Wands before.
“What… kind… of… cards… are… those?” he asked, interested despite himself.
“Tarot cards,” said Mickey. “And what happened to your voice? Used to be nobody could shut you up.”
On the counter next to Max-Ernest was an oversized polka-dot notepad and an oversized candy-striped pen—more circus props. He picked up the pen and tested it on the notepad. (It worked, although it contained pink glitter-glue instead of ink.)
I HAVE LARYNGITIS, he wrote. And on the next line, YOU MEAN LIKE CARDS FOR FORTUNE-TELLING? Then he held up the pad for the table to see.
Morrie nodded. “Except when you gamble with them, you’re not wasting your money!” “That’s right—you’re contributing to the Clown Improvement Society!” said Mickey.
“In Italy, there is a game we play with tarot cards, many hundreds of years old,” Pietro explained. “It is called the Tarocchino.”
“Enough history lessons, old man,” said Mickey. “Morrie?” He tapped the table twice, making sure Morrie saw him.
Morrie nodded discreetly. Or sort of discreetly.
“How sad! I’m fresh out of wands,” said Morrie, sounding not very sad about it. He held up a card face-out for all to see. “Mr. Magician, I present my trump card… the Magician.”
The real-life magician’s eyes twinkled as he laid his card on top of Morrie’s. “How about a clown for a clown? Or should I say, the Fool to trump a fool?”
“Wait, you can’t play the Fool—that’s like the Joker,” said Mickey, outraged. “You’re changing the rules…!”
“I am the only Italian in the room, no? I think I should know the rules. The Fool, he is wild.
He trumps all.”
Mickey threw the Two of Wands on the table, then pushed the pile of coins toward the magician.
“Cheater!” he grumbled.

A few minutes later, Pietro and Max-Ernest stood outside the trailer. Miserable, Max-Ernest was scribbling furiously with the candy-striped clown pen.
I DID EVERYTHING RIGHT AND SHE DIDN’T EVEN BLINK! SHE JUST KEPT LYING THERE. I DON’T KNOW WHAT TO DO. THE DOCTORS SAY THE LONGER SHE STAYS IN A COMA, THE LESS LIKELY SHE’S EVER GOING TO WAKE UP.
He showed Pietro the pad, then added petulantly: NOT THAT YOU CARE!
Pietro put his hand on Max-Ernest’s shoulder. “I know you are angry with me. You think I should not be playing cards at a time like this. That I do not love our Cass enough. But you must understand, the cards, they were telling us something-" Max-Ernest looked at him suspiciously.
I THOUGHT YOU WERE JUST PLAYING A GAME.
"That does not mean the cards have lost their power."
BUT YOU DON'T THINK THEY'RE... Max-Ernest hesitated before writing the word... MAGIC? YOU DON'T ACTUALLY BELIEVE PEOPLE CAN SEE INTO THE FUTURE, DO YOU?
He couldn't believe Pietro, his mentor and hero, could be so superstitious. Pietro was a professional magician-well, a retired professional magician- not a wizard.
Pietro shrugged. "What is the magic? Most people, they think it is what cannot be explained.
The magicians, we know better. The magic, it is what has not been explained... yet. Here- " He reached behind Max-Ernest's left ear and seemed to pull out a coin.
Max-Ernest almost rolled his eyes-it was the oldest trick in the book. But still he observed closely. Pietro rarely did magic tricks anymore, and it was always instructive to watch him.
Pietro closed his fist around the coin. When he opened his hand, there were two coins. He closed and opened his hand once more; and once more there was only one. Rather than lying flat, it stood on its edge--as if to show there was no coin underneath.
"Now, where do you thinkis the other coin?" Max-Ernest smiled knowingly.
YOU'RE HOLDING IT BETWEEN THE BACKS OF YOUR FINGERS.
"That is the usual method, yes," admitted the magician.
But when he spread his fingers, there was no coin to be seen. "This time it is something else."
He turned his hand over, keeping his fingers spread open. The second coin was standing upright on the back of his hand, seemingly perfectly balanced.
He turned his hand sideways and the coin did not move. Neither did the coin that was
standing on his palm. Both coins appearedto be weightless and/or stuck to his skin.
  
"What is the trick, do you think?" TAPE? GLUE?
The magician shook his head. "See for yourself."
He handed a coin to Max-Ernest, showing him that it was not the slightest bit sticky. Max-Ernest grunted in frustration. It wasn't in his nature to be stumped.
"Do not be upset. We do not need always to know everything right away," said Pietro. "The magician, he wants to understand, of course. How does the elephant float in the air? What makes the illusion? Is there a mirror or are there strings? OK, fine, yes. This is the magician's job. But, Max-Ernest, if you do not feel first the mystery, you do not see the magic! You are like a musician who can make all the sounds but does not hear the music…. Now, take the other coin.” As soon as Pietro handed the second coin to Max-Ernest, it stuck to the first coin. Max-
Ernest pulled them apart—they flew back together.
THEY’RE MAGNETS?
The magician nodded, smiling broadly. Max-Ernest frowned, disgruntled.
ISN’T THAT CHEATING?
Pietro laughed. “You and the clowns with your cheating! It’s a magic trick! What is the cheating? There is no cheating in magic, only in poker.”
I STILL DON’T SEE WHAT THIS HAS TO DO WITH TAROT CARDS. OR CASS.
“Who knows? Perhaps there is some force field that directs the cards just as the magnetic field swirls around the magnets. Imagine, the people in the ancient world, what they thought the first time they saw the magnetism….”
As he spoke, Pietro took the magnetic coins back from Max-Ernest and made one dance in his palm by manipulating the other coin above the first. “Invisible strings pulling two things together—it is magic, no? The cards, I know they are a sign. Just because I do not understand their secret, that is no reason to ignore their message.”
OK, wrote Max-Ernest, not totally convinced. SO THEN WHAT WERE THE CARDS TELLING US?
The magician looked him in the eye. “Really? You are ready to listen?” Max-Ernest nodded.
“Very well,” said Pietro gravely. “Did you notice how the Ace of Wands, it fell upside down? This, I think, means a wrong must be righted. Or in this case, a stolen item returned.”
WHAT STOLEN ITEM?
“Did you not take the Tuning Fork from your principal? What is her name? Mrs. Johnson.
This thing, it is bad luck. It wants to be returned to its owner. That is why it will not help you.” IT’S A METAL OBJECT. HOW CAN IT WANT ANYTHING?
“Is a magnet not a metal object? Does it not want to point north? You ask for my advice. This is my advice. Give the Tuning Fork back to your principal.”
FINE, I’LL GIVE IT BACK, wrote Max-Ernest, not at all certain he understood. BUT THEN HOW DO WE GET CASS BACK? I NEED THE TUNING FORK TO MAKE THE ANTIDOTE.
“You must get her yourself.”
Max-Ernest stared in confusion. YOU MEAN FROM THE PAST? FROM BACK IN HISTORY?
“More or less. You must bring her home from her own head.” BUT HOW??
“You know her head better than anyone. Get inside it.” LIKE MIND READING?
“Yes, if you like to call it that.”
Max-Ernest shook his head in disbelief. Pietro had given him many impossible assignments in the past, but this one took the cake.
“Listen, my friend. We both know you do not have the laryngitis.”
The magician gently extracted the pen from Max-Ernest’s hand and held it aloft as if it were one of his magic wands—or perhaps the Ace of Wands. “Your problem, it is not here”—he pointed the pen at Max-Ernest’s throat—“it is here”—he pointed the pen at Max-Ernest’s chest. “My heart is heavy, too. But you must be strong. This situation, it is very serious. It is not only Cass’s life that is at stake. If she dies, the Secret, it will die, too.”
Max-Ernest reached for the pen, but Pietro shook his head and made the pen disappear with another sleight of hand (not easy to do, considering the pen’s large size).
“Speak.”
Max-Ernest shrugged, resigned to using his voice. “I thought you didn’t want anybody to find out the Secret.”
“This is true,” agreed Pietro. “But the only thing worse than people finding out the Secret, it is that we lose the Secret forever.”
Max-Ernest looked at the ground, pondering the magician’s words. Like everything about the Secret, they were paradoxical but, he knew, of monumental importance.
“OK, I’ll be strong,” he said after a moment, in as forceful a voice as he could muster. “And if there’s any way to get inside Cass’s head, I’ll find it.”
“Good. But first, return the Tuning Fork!” said Pietro, trying for a light tone he obviously did not feel. “And when this is all over, and our friend Cass is on her feet once more, I will teach you to play the Tarocchino.”
With that last promise Pietro patted Max-Ernest on the back, then stepped back into the trailer to play another hand.

! READER ADVISORY !

ALERT LEVEL:
90% CACAO, VERY DARK

A RECENT REPORT FROM ABROAD INDICATESTHAT SOME OF THE BOOKS IN THE SECRET SERIES MAY HAVE BEEN TAMPERED WITH BY AGENTS OF THE MIDNIGHT SUN.

UNTIL PROVEN OTHERWISE, YOU SHOULD ASSUME THIS BOOK IS EQUIPPED WITH A DEVICE SUCH AS A RADIO FREQUENCY TRANSCEIVER OR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM THAT ENABLES THE MIDNIGHT SUN TO TRACK THE BOOK AND ANYBODY WHO HAPPENS TO BE HOLDING IT.

IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT THE BOOK MAY BE TREATED WITH AN INVISIBLE INK OR POWDER DESIGNED TO RUB OFF ON THE READER, IDENTIFYING HIM OR HER AS A PERSON OF INTEREST TO THE MIDNIGHT SUN.

THERE IS NO WAY TO GUARANTEE YOUR SAFETY OR THE SAFETY OF THIS BOOK, BUT HERE ARE A FEW ORDINARY PRECAUTIONS YOU SHOULD TAKE:

NEVER LEAVE THIS BOOK LYING OUT IN THE OPEN. (OF COURSE, YOU SHOULDN'T LEAVE IT TELLING THE TRUTH OUT IN THE OPEN, EITHER. THAT WOULD BE EVEN WORSE!)

IF IT IS NECESSARY TO CARRY THIS BOOK IN PUBLIC, DISGUISE THE BOOK. THE MOST COMMON WAY TO DO THIS IS TO BORROW A COVER FROM ANOTHER BOOK OR TO MAKE YOUR OWN COVER OUT OF A BROWN PAPER BAG, BUT I ENCOURAGE YOU TO USE YOUR OWN CREATIVITY. DISGUISES, LIKE ROUTINES, SHOULD BE VARIED AS OFTEN AS POSSIBLE.

STAY ON THE LOOKOUT FOR ANY WHITE-GLOVE-WEARING STRANGERS AND EVEN-I HATE TO SAY IT-WHITE-GLOVE-WEARING FRIENDS. REMEMBER, THE MASTERS OF THE MIDNIGHT SUN ARE SMART AND DEVIOUS. THEY MIGHT ADOPT DISGUISES THAT MAKE THEIR GLOVES LOOK INNOCUOUS-A BATON-TWIRLER COSTUME, FOR INSTANCE. OR THEY MIGHT WEAR OUTFITS THAT HIDE THEIR GLOVES ALTOGETHER-LIKE A FULL-BODY MASCOT COSTUME AT A BALL GAME OR THEME PARK. IT IS BEST NOT TO TRUST ANY WALKING ALLIGATORS OR PURPLE DINOSAURS UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.

DO NOT PANIC. ANXIETY ATTACKS AND ASSOCIATED MALADIES LIKE DIZZINESS, NAUSEA, HYPERVENTILATION, SKIN RASHES, HIVES, AND INCONTINENCE, WHILE PERFECTLY UNDERSTANDABLE, ARE NOT AT ALL HELPFUL.

USE COMMON SENSE. IF SOMEBODY OFFERS YOU A THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR THIS BOOK, CHANCES ARE THEIR MOTIVES ARE NOT PURE. THEN AGAIN, A THOUSAND DOLLARS IS A LOT OF MONEY. TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN.

IN THE UNFORTUNATE EVENT THAT YOU FIND YOURSELF CORNERED BY A MEMBER OF THE MIDNIGHT SUN, PICK YOUR NOSE. REALLY. MOST MEMBERS OF THE MIDNIGHT SUN ARE VERY FASTIDIOUS. THE SIGHT OF SOMETHING SO DISGUSTING WILL LIKELY CAUSE THEM TO BACK AWAY IN HORROR, GIVING YOU A CHANCE TO ESCAPE. IF THAT DOESN'T WORK, YOU MIGHT TRY TELLING THEM THEY HAVE SOMETHING STUCK IN THEIR TEETH. MIDNIGHT SUN MEMBERS ARE EXTREMELY VAIN AND THE THOUGHT OF SOMETHING DIRTYING THEIR PEARLY WHITES SHOULD SEND THEM RUNNING TO THE NEAREST MIRROR.

LASTLY, I AM AWARE THAT CERTAIN TEACHERS AND LIBRARIANS AND EVEN SOME VERY IRRESPONSIBLE PARENTS HAVE ON OCCASION READ ONE OR MORE OF MY BOOKS ALOUD TO ONE OR MORE CHILDREN. IT GOES WITHOUT SAYING THAT I HIGHLY DISAPPROVE OF THIS APPROACH. THE ONLY THING WORSE THAN PEOPLE READING ONE OF MY BOOKS TO THEMSELVES IS PEOPLE SHARING IT WITH OTHERS. BE THAT AS IT MAY, I SUSPECT THAT ANY PLEADING ON MY PART WOULD HAVE LITTLE EFFECT ON THE SITUATION; THOSE RECKLESS READ-ALOUDERS WOULD ONLY READ ALOUD LOUDER. PERHAPS, HOWEVER, A SUGGESTION OR TWO WOULD NOT BE INAPPROPRIATE. IN THE EVENT THAT YOU OR SOMEBODY YOU KNOW SIMPLY MUST READ THIS BOOK ALOUD, PLEASE MAKE SURE THE BLINDS ARE CLOSED, ANY RECORDING DEVICES ARE TURNED OFF, AND OF COURSE THAT THERE IS PLENTY OF CHOCOLATE AVAILABLE FOR EVERYONE.

THANK YOU,

P.B.

CHAPTER -EIGHT
DOUBLE VISION

The Double Monocle gave her a headache.
Cass wasn’t sure what she’d expected—to see all those ghosts the Seer was talking about?—but all she got was the dizzying experience of seeing double through a single eye.
Holding the monocle tight, she turned in a circle, surveying the world around her. As one object exited her vision and another took its place, the first object—a pitchfork, a donkey, a bale of hay—seemed to leave an afterimage. Like when you wave your hand through the air and it appears to leave a trail in its wake. A curious effect but hardly paranormal.
This is just double vision, she thought. Not second sight.
But when she put down the monocle, she noticed something rather surprising. Some of the things she’d been looking at were much farther away than they’d appeared through the monocle. To the naked eye, they were mere specks in the distance. She looked into the monocle again and confirmed that, yes, it functioned like an exceptionally powerful pair of binoculars.
As she moved the monocle away from her eye and then back again, she noticed something else: some things she was seeing through the monocle weren’t visible at all otherwise. They were blocked by walls, by animals, by people. With the monocle she could see almost everything around her, no matter how far away or how covered up. Maybe not as exciting as seeing spirits, but to Cass thrilling nonetheless. And more useful.
Certainly, it would make finding someone much easier.
She turned in the direction in which she’d last seen the Jester. The crowd had not yet fully dispersed. With the monocle, she could see through the throngs of people at the market and yet she still could not see him. The box he’d been standing on was bare.
A quick glance around through the monocle was sufficient to confirm the bad news: he was gone.
Despair threatened to overtake her, but she stifled it with an act of will. She had been in plenty of situations more difficult than this, she reminded herself.
Of course, in most of those situations, Max-Ernest had been with her. More often than not she complained that he was just getting in the way, but now that he wasn’t by her side, she suddenly felt helpless. She depended on his logical mind to solve puzzles and crack codes.
If he were here with her, what would he say that would help her find the Jester? Well, what do we know about the Jester? she imagined Max-Ernest asking.
Dutifully, she started making a list in her head:

1. The Jester was the founder of the Terces Society.
2. He liked to rhyme and tell jokes.
3. He wore a silly hat with bells.
4. He worked for the King (if you could call being a jester work).
5. He had pointy ears like hers and he was her great-great-great-(she wasn’t certain how many greats) grandfather.
6. He lived in a tent.
7. He knew the Secret.

Most of these things Cass knew from talking to her friend, the late great homunculus, Mr. Cabbage Face. Being five hundred years old, he’d known the Jester personally. He also was only two feet tall (or nearly) and born in a bottle, but that’s another story—a story told in “The Legend of Cabbage Face.”*  
On the list, Number 4, He worked for the King, and Number 6, He lived in a tent, seemed to be the only items of information that might help at the moment.
The King, Cass assumed, lived not in a tent but in a palace or castle. (What was the difference, anyway?)* This palace or castle, Cass could hear Max-Ernest saying, would be the logical first place to look for the Jester. If the Jester wasn’t there, she might find him in his tent nearby.  
So the question was: where was the palace? (She dropped the words or castle for the sake of brevity. And because Max-Ernest wasn’t really listening to her thoughts—not that she was aware of, anyway.) Being invisible, she couldn’t very well ask for directions.
There were no signs, unfortunately. The market might have looked like a Renaissance faire, but there were no helpful markers stuck in the ground with arrows pointing one way to the King’s palace, the other way to Ye Olde Pizza Stand.
Which way had she come from? That would be a place to start. Since she hadn’t seen a palace on her way into town, maybe she should try the opposite direction?
Before she could start retracing her steps, a trumpet sounded.
“Make way! Make way! The Duke is on parade and he brings gifts for the King!”
All at once the crowd of people in the market divided in two. Some grumbled in annoyance, others chattered with excitement, but everyone stepped aside as if there were no option but to obey.
A moment later, a long procession started passing through.
Cass surveyed the participants through the Double Monocle. First came a series of soldiers on foot—footmen, she presumed, unless the word had a more specific meaning? They held curving swords and wore puffy pants—knickers, Cass wanted to call them—that ended at the knee.
Then there were the knights on horseback. They were in full armor and gleamed in the sun.
Long swords and longer javelins hung at their sides, ready and waiting for the next joust. “Whoa, boy!” “Tally-ho!” they shouted to their horses.
Also on horseback were several finely dressed men and women who would simply be called lords and ladies in a Renaissance faire, but who in actuality, Cass figured, had more specific names and titles. They did not call out to the crowd but rather chattered and gossiped among themselves, teasing one another and cooling themselves with fans, their stiff ruffled collars moving only slightly in the breeze.
Who were they? The Duke’s family? Princes and princesses? Watching them pass by was like looking into a history book without being able to read the text. The images meant nothing without captions explaining them.
In the very middle of the procession was a large wooden chest studded with brass on all sides and held aloft by four muscle-bound soldiers. They grunted with effort and counted rhythmically
—“one two three four, one two three four”—to synchronize their steps.
Around Cass, peasants grumbled at the sight of the chest: “Gifts for the King, he says? More like duty for the King.”

“’Tis not a gift if you demand it!”
“Ah, don’t shed a tear for the Duke! He can afford it.” “’Course he can—he takes all our profits!”
I wonder what’s inside that chest, Cass thought, edging closer to the procession. She examined the chest through the monocle. There was something about the lock—it was large and ornate and resembled a coat of arms—that told her more than simply money lay inside. In any case, the chest was headed for the King. So she would follow it to the palace. And, with any luck, to the Jester.
Her invisibility gave her great freedom of movement, and she was about to fall into place behind the last footman when a funny thing happened in front of her: a head—a man’s head, to be more precise—peeked out of a barrel of onions that sat, seemingly abandoned, at the edge of the market.
Surprised—and momentarily overwhelmed by the scent of onions—Cass exhaled loudly.
The man wheeled around and looked straight in her direction. He was wearing a black mask over the top half of his face while the bottom half was covered by some rather angry-looking whiskers. He held a large axe in his hand. Were it not for the sticks of hay and assorted onion skins sticking out of his hair, he would have looked very sinister.
Cass tried not to flinch, reminding herself he couldn’t see her.
Frowning, the masked man turned back and quietly stepped out of the barrel. He gestured silently to his right and Cass saw another man step out of a sack of potatoes. Still another man stepped out from behind an apple cart.
Afraid to make a noise, Cass watched, transfixed. It was clear that these three men were about to embark on some kind of illicit, probably criminal activity—but what activity in particular, she had no idea.
Suddenly the sound of a galloping horse drowned out all the other noise in the market.
Looking over her shoulder, Cass saw another masked figure thundering toward her on a tall black steed. The horse’s neck was bent low, his long black mane flying in the wind. Matching the horse’s posture, the rider was also bent forward, long dark hair flying. Around them, carts overturned, cages sprung open, people scattered, but horse and rider seemed to occupy their own universe, so fast-moving that in comparison, the rest of the market seemed to exist in slow motion. And yet with her monocle, Cass could see every inch of horse and rider as if time had stopped altogether.
The horse came closer—a living cyclone of clattering hooves, flared nostrils, and gleaming muscles—and for a brief second Cass caught a glimpse of the masked rider. It was a woman, a beautiful woman, her lips pursed in concentration.
“Anastasia…! Anastasia…!” The name rippled through the crowd, repeated like an incantation.
A moment later, the horse was hurtling toward the procession.

It all happened so fast, nobody seemed to know where to turn. There were screams and shouts and commotion. Soldiers waving swords. Horses spinning in circles. Ladies (and even a lord or two) fainting in fright.
Within seconds, the big wooden chest was on the ground. The bewhiskered bandit, a few onion skins still stuck to his hair, dropped his heavy axe down on the lid of the chest, breaking the big brass lock. The soldiers who’d been carrying the chest watched helplessly, their hands tied behind their backs.
Quickly and deftly, the masked woman—Anastasia—tossed ruby rings and emerald necklaces, silver goblets and golden candlesticks, to each of her masked cohorts in turn. Now on horseback themselves, they caught the glittering booty with outstretched hands, then urged their horses away from the market, in the direction of the neighboring woods.
“What’s this—?” Her axe-wielding companion opened a small wooden box and held up a jagged black rock. The rock was about the size of a cantaloupe and had thin veins of gold running through it.
“It is ugly, but it must be very valuable,” said Anastasia, ripping open a heavy bag and finding it full of gold coins. “Otherwise the Duke would not dare send it to the King.”
As she spoke, coins started flying out of the bag and landing on the mysterious rock. Reins, spurs, chains, every bit of metal in the vicinity seemed to be drawn to it. Soon the rock was covered with a small mountain of metal.
Cass watched from the crowd. Through the lenses of the Double Monocle, the rock had a unique bluish glow. It seemed almost to pulsate. Was she imagining it, or could she feel the monocle being tugged in the rock’s direction?
Anastasia stared at the rock. “I have never seen the like….”
Experimentally, her bandit colleague brushed away coins, making a clear patch. He brought his axe close to the rock—it stuck to the rock with a clang.
“What power!” he said, pulling them apart. “It is the stone of a sorcerer—do you think it is cursed?”
“Nonsense. There is a much simpler explanation, I am sure,” said Anastasia. “Put it away, Thomas—there will be time to play later. Take the chest with you. It’s nearly empty now.”
Eyeing the rock with more than a hint of nervousness, the masked man—Thomas—carefully placed it inside his rucksack. Then he strapped the big wooden chest onto the back of the nearest horse, jumped on, and galloped away.
Meanwhile, Anastasia had raised another bag of coins above her head.
“And now I give back to the people what is theirs!” She spun the bag around with a flourish, raining gold coins on the cheering crowd.
“Anastasia…! Hooray for Anastasia…!” they chanted.
Her horse reared, tossing his thick black mane in the air so that it was backlit by the sun. As she brought her horse down onto four legs, the mysteriously generous thief tossed her own black mane in similar fashion. Then she, too, galloped away, following her bandit comrades into the woods.
Cass watched wistfully through the Double Monocle. She felt an unexpected yearning to follow after this daring woman and her band of thieves. But her job lay elsewhere.
With a sigh, she lowered the monocle. She turned back toward the procession—or what remained of the procession after the robbers had done their work—and prepared to follow it to the palace.

CHAPTER THREE MAGNETS

Hear Ye! Hear Ye!

ALL LADS AND LASSES OF THE XXXXX SCHOOL ARE HEREBY SUMMONED TO HER MAJESTY’S COURT AT THE THE RENAISSANCE FAIRE ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10.

BE THERE, OR A POX BE UPON YOU! PRIZE FOR BEST COSTUME WILL BE AWARDED BY QUEEN ELIZABETH HERSELF.

SCHOOL FIELD TRIP SPONSORED BY MEDIEVAL DAYS FAMILY RESTAURANTS. EAT, DRINK, AND BE MEDIEVAL!

The yellow flyer showed a picture of a pair of knights jousting on horseback.
Max-Ernest shook his head. “Why doesn’t anybody ever know the difference between Renaissance and medieval?” he muttered to himself. “They’re almost exact opposites—”
The Xxxxx School visited the Renaissance Faire every fall; it was the first big event of the season, coming about a month after the start of school. Usually Max-Ernest was excited for Ren-Faire. He’d never worn a costume, but he always found something to be interested in: whether it be solving obscure Renaissance riddles or distinguishing between English and Italian styles of armor. This year, he couldn’t have been less interested in the annual field trip. As far as he was concerned, with Cass’s life on the line, it was no time for merriment. And if he absolutely had to take a trip to the Renaissance, he would have preferred that it be to the real Renaissance—so he could retrieve Cass in person. That is, assuming she’d made it all the way back to the Jester’s time and hadn’t gotten stuck at her mother’s high school prom.
Anything, however, would have been preferable to the trip he was currently embarked on.
It was the first day of school, and Max-Ernest was standing still in the hallway, stalling, while chattering students strode past him. Eventually he tore himself away from the bulletin board and stepped nervously into the administration office.
Behind the counter was a woman he didn’t recognize. She was chewing gum—against school rules, Max-Ernest noted silently—and painting her fingernails.
“Hi,” he said, his voice louder than intended. “I’m—”
“Max-Ernest, I know—Mrs. Johnson is waiting for you,” said the woman in a nasally New York accent, not looking up.
“Oh. Um, who are you?”
“New school secretary,” she said, popping a bubble. “Name is Opal. Like the rock.” The secretary dangled her hand in front of Max-Ernest, showing off a gold ring inset with a milky, iridescent stone.
“Er, nice to meet you…?”
“Likewise, I’m sure.” She pronounced it shoo-ah.
Max-Ernest didn’t know what to think of the new secretary. Even sitting down, Opal was very tall, and she had a big head of blond curly hair that made her look even taller. Her hands were exceptionally large, and her face wore a seemingly permanent smirk punctuated by a sizable mole on her right cheek. All in all, not a very reassuring presence.
“You sure she’s not too busy?” Max-Ernest asked hopefully. “I’m sure there’s a ton of stuff she needs to do. Maybe I should come back tomorrow. Yeah, that’s a good idea—how ’bout that?”
“Sorry, Max-Ernest. No such luck.”
Was it his imagination or was she stifling a laugh?
Max-Ernest took a tentative step in the direction of the principal’s door. The last time he’d seen Mrs. Johnson she had told him she never wanted to see him again. And for good reason. He and Cass and Yo-Yoji had stolen Mrs. Johnson’s family heirloom, the Tuning Fork, and blackmailed her to boot. (It all had been for the noble purpose of saving Cass’s mother’s life, but that certainly didn’t matter to Mrs. Johnson.) He would be lucky to leave her office with a semester’s worth of detention; expulsion was more likely.
“She said not to knock,” Opal added brightly. “Just walk right in.”
Max-Ernest nodded weakly. His throat felt dry, his palms sweaty. Finally, he steeled himself and turned the doorknob.

“Max-Ernest, for shame! Didn’t anyone ever teach you to knock?”
“Uh, sorry… Mrs. Johnson,” Max-Ernest stammered, silently cursing the new secretary. It appeared that she had set him up.
“We will be most satisfied if you address us as Your Majesty, please,” said Mrs. Johnson in an exaggerated English accent. “Well, don’t just stand there, come in.”
Max-Ernest couldn’t help gaping. He almost didn’t recognize the woman standing in front of a full-length mirror. In place of her usual polyester pantsuit and matching hat she was wearing a long velvet gown and a rhinestone tiara. A black stone pendant on a black velvet ribbon hung around her neck; it was shaped like an inverted eye and polished to a glossy sheen.
“I, or rather we, will be Queen Elizabeth this year at the Renaissance Faire. And as you see, you have interrupted us in our royal chambers. Normally, the punishment for such an offense would be death.”
“Sorry, Mrs…. I mean, Your Majesty.”
“Much better. So, tell me what you think of the dress. Too plain? Too gaudy? It has only just arrived from the tailor.”
“Um…” Max-Ernest looked down, unsure how to answer the question.
When he looked up, he gasped out loud. The pendant she was wearing appeared to be floating in the air.
“It’s a magnet,” said Mrs. Johnson, following Max-Ernest’s eyes. Oh, that explained it. Sort of.
The magnet was pointing directly at him. Or rather at the Tuning Fork in his pocket, he thought.

“A very strong magnet,” she added. “It attracts and absorbs all negative energies. It has transformed my, I mean, our life.”
She patted the pendant and it settled back against her chest.
“You see, something terribly important has happened to us. We have received a message from… ourselves.”
Before Max-Ernest could ask what that meant or declare that it made no sense or even ask just what message she had received, she continued: “And we went on a journey to a land far, far away. We call it the I—.”
Max-Ernest didn’t think he’d heard her correctly. “The I love me?”
“Well, there is that play on words, yes. But what we said was: the Isle of Me. The island of pure self that lies within us all… And what sent us on this trip from us to us, you ask?” She paused for emphasis. “The answer is: you. You and your friends.”
“Me… er, us?”
Mrs. Johnson nodded. “In your own way, you’ve done me a favor.”
Carefully adjusting her dress, she sat down behind her desk, a principal once more.
“After you took the Tuning Fork, I went through a kind of withdrawal and I realized that the Fork had been ruling me—that I wasn’t the master of my own isle, so to speak,” she explained, dropping the royal “we” and the English accent at the same time. “It was time to put the I back in me.”
“You mean the letter I? There is no I in me,” said Max-Ernest, who was struggling valiantly to follow along. “Or do you mean put the E-Y-E back in me?” he asked, looking at the eye-shaped pendant hanging from her neck.
“Whichever. Both. I was speaking figuratively,” said Mrs. Johnson impatiently. “Somehow, I knew the Tuning Fork would come back to me. And I wanted to be ready when it did. ‘What force could protect me?’ I asked I. What would draw the Tuning Fork away from me even as I was drawn to the Tuning Fork? And do you know what I told me was the answer to my problems?”
“A magnet?” Max-Ernest guessed, taking a seat opposite the principal. It was indisputably odd that the subject of magnets would be brought up by both Pietro and Mrs. Johnson in the space of two days, but Max-Ernest had a hunch this was the answer she was looking for.
“Very good.” Mrs. Johnson looked impressed and at the same time slightly disappointed, as if she’d been hoping to provide the answer herself.
“Naturally, being the principal of a magnet school, I had considered the significance of magnets before. But I had never considered they might have a personal application,” Mrs. Johnson continued.* “And lo and behold, what should I find in my attic? In a box of things that belonged to my Great-Great-Great-Aunt Clara? The same woman to whom the Tuning Fork belonged, incidentally? The one everybody says was a witch?”  
“The magnet?”
“That’s right—the very magnet I am wearing around my neck.”
She held up the pendant for Max-Ernest’s inspection. At close range, it seemed to be some sort of black stone with a thin vein of gold running through it.
“I have decided no longer to be ashamed of my ancestor but to embrace her memory,” continued Mrs. Johnson. “It may be there is much to learn from her so-called witchcraft…. Now, I cannot wait any longer. Do you have the Tuning Fork? I take it that’s why you wanted to see me.”
She looked anxiously at him, craning her neck, inspecting his pockets for bulges, trying to peek into his schoolbag.
“Yeah, it’s right here, Mrs. Johnson.”
This time she didn’t bother to correct him on the name.
As soon as Max-Ernest brought out the Tuning Fork, Mrs. Johnson’s eyes were drawn to it— as if her eyes were magnets themselves.
The pendant around her neck was floating again, straining against the chain. Max-Ernest, meanwhile, felt an invisible force pulling him toward the principal.
“You see its power—?” She gasped.
Tearing her gaze away from the Tuning Fork, she stood up and walked around her desk to Max-Ernest. “We will make a circuit, you and I,” she said, grasping him by the hand and pulling him out of his seat. “We will draw out all the negative energy and create a positive flow.”
Positive or negative, all Max-Ernest could think about was that he and the principal were holding hands. Holding hands! He gritted his teeth and prepared to wait it out.
At least it looked like he wouldn’t be expelled.

CHAPTER -SEVEN
DOGS NOT HOGS

Back on your feet, gents! Do not tarry, m’ladies.”
The knights and the footmen, the lords and the ladies, and the entire procession reassembled relatively quickly, albeit grumblingly, after the robbery—rather as if it all had happened before. Cass got the sense that the masked woman and her band of thieves regularly set upon travelers in the area—like bandits who staked out stagecoach routes in the Old West.
Miraculously, nobody appeared to have been hurt in the fracas.
Cass slipped in among the last of the footmen and was soon following the procession down the road in the direction, she hoped, of the King’s palace—and of the Jester himself.
The trip took hours and the procession became increasingly bedraggled. Sweat trickled down noses and made shirts stick to backs. Mud splattered breeches and filled soldiers’ boots. Humans and animals alike complained of aches and pains, thirst and hunger. Despite her ghostly state, even Cass was beginning to feel the toll.
Eventually, however, the bumpy road gave way to smooth stone, and the wild countryside was replaced by carefully tended gardens. A matching formality overtook the procession. Backs stiffened, soldiers fell into stride with each other, flags were held erect. The lords and ladies or whoever they were in the finer clothing stopped and primped themselves.
Even before she saw it, Cass knew they were nearing the palace.

While the palace was not a white and sparkling fairy-tale castle on a hill, nor an austere fortress with a moat and a drawbridge, it was nonetheless grand, and certainly it was very impressive to Cass. A vast redbrick edifice, it stretched out on either side the length of several city blocks and boasted row after row of white-framed windows that blinked in the flickering sunlight like hundreds of eyes on an enormous face.
After the procession had passed through the palace’s outer gates and into its expansive grounds, some of the soldiers and footmen peeled away, presumably heading for their barracks, while others escorted the more important travelers toward the twin towers that buttressed the palace’s arched front entrance.
Cass shivered, reminding herself that she had nothing to be afraid of—except failing her mission. She peered through the Double Monocle into the courtyard that lay beyond the entrance. A group of dignitaries waited. Could the Jester be among them?
Woof woof! Ruff ruff! Bow wow! Yap yap! Grrrrrrrrr…*
Cass was about to follow the others past the lines of royal guards and into the palace’s interior courtyard when she was suddenly descended upon by a dozen barking beagles. The beagles nipped angrily at her heels, somehow sensing that the invisible girl was an interloper, unwelcome on royal grounds.**
A tired-looking man in leather breeches—their trainer, Cass guessed—trotted up to the beagles.
“Terrence? Bailey? Hunter? What are you little gits up to? Found a groundhog, have you? Or another partridge fallen?” he asked solicitously, almost as if the dogs were his master and not the other way around. “No need to fight over the spoils. Plenty of delicious treats waiting for you in the kennels! Come on now, quit your barking.”
To the trainer and anyone else around, it must have looked very odd—the beagles circling for no apparent reason, pawing at the air. Her invisibility had protected her until now; Cass didn’t want to press her luck. Desperate, she tried to shoo the dogs away from her—a difficult task to perform without making any noise.
Fortunately, the trainer was able to coax them away with a few treats he happened to be carrying in his satchel.


Unfortunately, by the time all the dogs had been rounded up, the procession had disappeared and the gate was clanging shut. Cass had missed her chance to get into the palace.
Trying not to be discouraged, she started walking the perimeter of the royal residence.
Where would she find the Jester? Did he have regular work hours or did he come and go as he pleased? (She imagined being a jester was something like being a stand-up comedian, but more mobile—like being a walking comedian.) She remembered a red-and-white-striped tent. Did he pitch his tent on royal grounds or did he hide it out in the woods somewhere?
Being invisible, she figured it wouldn’t be too much of a risk to climb through an open window, but it was chilly out, and every window she saw was shut. She was, however, able to look inside a few windows where curtains were not drawn, and she saw some of the palace rooms. Cass knew that some people, like her antiques-collecting grandfathers, would have given their right arms to see the furnishings inside, but to her, all the rooms looked the same: filled with uncomfortable-looking chairs and gold-framed paintings that were either dark and scary or silly and heaven-ish. Nowhere did she see a wiry man wearing a three-pointed hat with bells.
After turning a corner, she noticed a stairwell on the side of the building. Walking down the short flight of steps, she found a small iron door—the first door she’d come across since the front entrance. She tried the handle. It was locked.
As she turned away, the door opened, nearly pushing her to the ground. “Ow!” she exclaimed, the sound obscured by the clanging of chains.
Recovering from the blow, Cass turned to see a uniformed soldier dragging a small creature out the door—a monkey, Cass assumed at first glance.
A scowling man in a dark cloak presided from the doorway. “Let him sleep in the kennels. If he will not speak, he is no better than a dog!”
The cloaked man spit on the creature’s back and then slammed the door before Cass could slip inside.
Dismayed, she looked down at the whimpering creature at her feet.
“Come on, you heard your master,” said the soldier, tugging on his collar. “It’s the kennels for you.”
The creature had exceptionally large eyes, and to Cass’s shock she found they were staring directly at her. He could see her! But the greater shock was that she knew those eyes very well….
“Mr. Cabbage Face!” she cried out before thinking better of it. The creature looked at her oddly, as if he didn’t quite understand.
But she was certain of it: although he was even shorter (if that was possible) than when she’d last seen him, and although there were fewer folds in his leathery skin, the creature in front of her was none other than a younger incarnation of her long-lost old friend, the homunculus. She would recognize him anywhere, she thought: the huge hands (for grabbing fistfuls of meat), the huge nose (for sniffing out roasts and sweets), the little torso with the big belly (for filling with meal after meal). The homunculus was literally one of a kind. The reason he could see her, she suspected, was that he was not entirely mortal.
The soldier drew his sword. “Who’s there?”
How awful to see her friend in chains! How was she going to free him? That was all she could think of.
Cass put her finger to her lips. The homunculus nodded slightly. He wouldn’t give her away.
Shrugging his shoulders, the soldier sheathed his sword. “Guess it’s that blasted ringing in my ears again….”
He gave the homunculus a tug. “Let’s go, dog.”
The homunculus grunted in complaint but started shuffling after him, chancing only a quick backward glance at Cass.
What is the homunculus doing at the palace? she wondered, silently following. And why is he being dragged to the kennels?
Then she remembered “The Legend of Cabbage Face.”
In the story, the homunculus’s creator, Lord Pharaoh, brings the homunculus to an audience with the King. When the homunculus won’t perform on command, Lord Pharaoh grows angry and punishes him by sending him outside to sleep in the mud with the hogs.
Was it possible she was witnessing in real life the events she’d previously only read about?
In that case, Cass realized with a chill, the cloaked man she saw in the doorway must have been the dreaded Lord Pharaoh—the brilliant but evil alchemist who was not only the father of the homunculus but also the founder of the Midnight Sun!*  
As for the hogs, the writer of the story had obviously gotten that part wrong. Not hogs, she thought.
Dogs.**

CHAPTER FOUR
NEW KID OLD COMRADE

It was lunchtime, and Max-Ernest was still preoccupied with his bizarre encounter with Mrs. Johnson in her Renaissance Faire costume. What a powerful magnet that must have been to float like that, he thought. He had to admit Pietro was right. To someone who didn’t know about magnetism, it would look like magic.
Automatically, he headed for his regular lunch spot: the Nuts Table.
Only as he was sitting down at his usual seat did he become aware that he was about to commit that capital schoolyard crime: having lunch alone.
He stared at the empty seats around him: Cass’s directly across the table and Yo-Yoji’s to his right. For years he hadn’t thought twice about eating by himself. But now that he’d experienced the pleasure of having friends to eat with, lunch didn’t seem like lunch without them.
What to do?
He wasn’t very hungry, and in any case he hadn’t taken a lunch with him to school that day. (In past years, he’d always had two lunches: one packed by his mother, one by his father. Lately, neither parent seemed to remember he might sometimes need to eat.) The only thing he had with him as far as food goes was a single chocolate bar—and that had to last until he got home. Besides, it had been in his pants pocket and was almost certainly melted. He needed to put it someplace cool and let it harden again.
Should he get up? He would look pretty silly, considering he’d just sat down. Besides, he had nowhere to go. At least not until after school.
He glanced down at the blue plastic surface of the Nuts Table as if his instructions might be written on it; and in fact there was plenty of graffiti etched into the plastic, but nothing helpful (or even repeatable).
Max-Ernest, it is fair to say, was at a loss.
I’m lonely, he thought with a sense of discovery. I feel bad.
In an odd way, that felt good.
Usually, being bad at feelings, Max-Ernest didn’t feel bad, he felt badly (the same way he threw badly, although Yo-Yoji had helped a little with that). But today, you could say, he was feeling bad well. That is not to say he was feeling well, exactly, but rather that he was doing a good job of feeling bad.
He was so pleased with this formulation that he almost repeated it aloud, but—sadly—there was no one to hear it.
The two other kids at the Nuts Table, Daniel-not-Danielle and Glob, didn’t count. For one thing, they were sitting at the far end of the table and he would have had to shout. For another, they hadn’t so much as said hello to him. (Then again, Max-Ernest hadn’t said hello, either. Hello wasn’t really done at the Nuts Table.)
Daniel-not-Danielle was a soft-spoken caramel-skinned boy with exceptionally long dreadlocks that he refused to cut, despite the fact that they were always covering his face. Although he would have preferred to call himself by his given name, Daniel, he’d had to correct the pronunciation so many times that the correction itself became his name.

Glob was a pimply and very pale-skinned boy who was even lower on the school pecking order but who enjoyed an inordinate degree of power in the “convenience food” industry. His junk food–reviewing website—The Glob Blog—was read by thousands of fast-food fans, and his opinions, it was said, could make or break a product in its first week.
Max-Ernest knew them as he knew everyone at the Nuts Table, but he didn’t know know them. That is, he wasn’t friends with them. On the other hand, he wasn’t enemies with them, either.*  
As an experiment, Max-Ernest moved several seats closer to the two boys in question. They didn’t welcome him, nor did they protest.
He took this as a positive sign.
“I thought he was an aristocrat, like a lord or a count or something—from England,” Daniel-not-Danielle was saying in a voice just barely above a whisper. “But then I heard he was an ex-convict who just got out of juvenile hall because of DNA evidence!”
At first, hearing the words lord and count, Max-Ernest assumed they were talking about what everyone at school was talking about: the Renaissance Faire. But as he listened in on Glob and Daniel-not-Danielle, he realized their topic was something else altogether: apparently, their school had been graced with the presence of an important new luminary.
“He’s neither. He’s a child actor,” said Glob, munching on a new, experimental variety of lime-green, spearmint-flavored, breath-freshening popcorn. (Food companies were always sending Glob free samples of the latest Exploding Cherry-Bomb Bubble Gum and Nacho-Cheese Extreme Potato Chips in the hopes of a favorable mention on his website.) “He’s on hiatus.”
Daniel-not-Danielle looked distressed. “He hates us? But he doesn’t even know us.”
“No, idiot, hiatus. He’s on hiatus. It’s what they call summer vacation when you’re on a TV show. Except when my blog goes on the food channel, we won’t really have a summer vacation because cable is on a different schedule.” He pulled a half-eaten popcorn kernel out of his mouth and inspected it. “These things are totally disgusting, but you kind of want to keep eating them—it’s weird.”
“Oh,” said Daniel-not-Danielle. “Well, either way, he’s definitely a genius. They say he’s fluent in twelve languages. Like even Belgian.”
“That’s impossible,” said Max-Ernest, cutting in. He was finding himself increasingly resentful of this brilliant new student.
“Why? Because it’s more languages than you speak?” Glob asked. (His sarcasm was a little less sharp than it might have been, owing to his mouth being full of green popcorn.)
“No. Because there’s no such thing as Belgian.” “Is so. What about Belgian waffles?”
“What about them? Waffles don’t speak any languages at all, last time I checked. The point is, in Belgium they speak French and also Flemish, which is actually a kind of Dutch. How ’bout that?”
“Whatever,” said Daniel-not-Danielle. “So maybe he speaks Flemish.”
“Yeah, and don’t dis Belgian waffles,” said Glob. “Medieval Days Restaurant gave me, like, a hundred bucks’ worth of coupons to try theirs. Now they’re gonna sponsor my blog during Ren-Faire. And this time they’re paying cash!”
Max-Ernest turned away. He felt like a jerk. Why was he bothering to talk to them? And why had he gotten so worked up about this aristocrat or actor or whatever-he-was new kid? He was supposed to be focused on saving Cass and saving Cass alone.
Suddenly, Max-Ernest missed her intensely. If a moment ago he was feeling an ache, this was more like a searing pain. With Cass he could argue about Belgium for hours and not feel like a jerk. She might laugh at him for obsessing about the differences between, say, Flemish Dutch and Dutch Dutch, but whenever she laughed at him she was always laughing with him at the same time. If that made any sense.
“Wait—that’s him!” said Glob.
“He’s not coming to the Nuts Table, is he? Now that’s impossible,” said Daniel-not-Danielle. Glob and Daniel-not-Danielle were openly staring at a boy who was walking—no, sauntering—toward them. Even at a distance, there was no mistaking him for anybody else at school. Instead of jeans and a T-shirt, he wore a striped suit and a bowtie, and instead of a backpack, he carried a briefcase, giving the impression of a dapper businessman rather than a middle-school student. Sunlight illuminated his golden curls and created bright sparkles in the large glass lens that covered his left eye.
“It’s not impossible. Anybody can sit here,” said Max-Ernest stubbornly, although he knew what Daniel-not-Danielle meant. “Besides, it’s always possible he’s really allergic to nuts,” he added.*  
“What’s that over his eye? Is it a magnifying glass or something? Maybe we can use it to light a fire,” said Glob excitedly.
“It’s a monocle,” said Max-Ernest. “It’s like glasses for one eye. Rich guys used to wear them in the old days.” And some magicians, he thought. Which was how he knew about monocles.
“He is—he’s totally coming to our table,” said Daniel-not-Danielle. Indeed, he was waving in their direction.
“Hullo, Max-Ernest, my dear fellow!”
Daniel-not-Danielle and Glob turned in unison toward Max-Ernest. Judging by their expressions, the only thing they thought more unlikely than the new boy visiting the Nuts Table was that he should know Max-Ernest by name.

! EMERGENCY DRILL ! 

ATTENTION, READER:

WE ARE SORRY TO INTERRUPT YOU IN THE MIDDLE OF A CHAPTER BUT AS YOU KNOW, EMERGENCIES ARE NOT ALWAYS SCHEDULED AT CONVENIENT TIMES. INDEED, THEY ARE NOT SCHEDULED AT ALL. THAT IS WHY THEY ARE EMERGENCIES.
THE AUTHOR OF THIS BOOK HAS HIRED US, THE TEAM OF EMERGENCY AGENTS, SPECIALISTS, AND ENGINEERS-MORE POPULARLY KNOWN BY OUR ACRONYM, T.E.A.S.E.-TO  CONDUCT THIS DRILL IN ORDER TO ENSURE THAT YOU ARE PREPARED FOR A GENUINE EMERGENCY. ALTHOUGH THIS IS ONLY A DRILL, YOUR FULL COOPERATION AND PARTICIPATION ARE IMPORTANT FOR YOUR OWN PROTECTION AND THE PROTECTION OF OTHERS. ALSO, IT IS NECESSARY IF WE ARE GOING TO BE COMPENSATED FOR OUR WORK. (PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH, THAT CHEAP @$%@#%$&!!, REFUSES TO PAY US IN ADVANCE.)
YOUR RESPONSE TO THE DRILL WILL BE TIMED AND COMPARED TO OTHER READERS' RESPONSES. THIS IS FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY. HUMILIATION OF PERCEIVED LOSERS IS NOT OUR INTENTION-ONLY A PERK.

REMEMBER OUR SLOGAN: IF AT FIRST YOU DON'T SUCCEED, YOU'LL NEVER HAVE ANOTHER CHANCE.

READY?

HERE IS THE SCENARIO FOR THE DRILL AS SUPPLIED TO US BY THE AUTHOR OF THIS BOOK. WE TAKE NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR ITS LIKELIHOOD OR VERACITY. BY PARTICIPATING, YOU AGREE NOT TO HOLD T.E.A.S.E. RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY INJURIES INCURRED WHEN YOU RESPOND TO THE FOLLOWING EMERGENCY:

YOU ARE ON THE SCHOOL BUS. YOUR BEST FRIEND IS HOME SICK AND YOU HAVE THE SEAT TO YOURSELF. YOU ARE QUIETLY READING A BOOK- THIS BOOK, THE BOOK IN YOUR HANDS NOW, ALTHOUGH NO ONE ON YOUR BUS WOULD KNOW IT BECAUSE YOU HAVE, OF COURSE, DISGUISED THE BOOK AS DISCUSSED EARLIER.

IF YOU MUST READ A SECRET SERIES BOOK IN PUBLIC, EVEN SOMEPLACE SAFE AND FAMILIAR-SEEMING, LIKE A SCHOOL BUS, IT IS BEST TO GLANCE UPWARD EVERY ONE OR TWO MINUTES TO MAKE SURE YOU ARE NOT BEING OBSERVED BY ANY POTENTIAL MIDNIGHT SUN MEMBERS. SADLY, YOU HAVE GOTTEN A LITTLE OVERINVOLVED IN THE STORY (SHAME ON YOU!) AND YOU HAVEN’T LOOKED UP IN MORE THAN TEN MINUTES.

NOW IMAGINE THIS: SUDDENLY REALIZING YOUR ERROR, YOU LIFT YOUR HEAD AND GLANCE OUT THE WINDOW. RUBBING YOUR EYES AND SHIELDING THEM FROM THE SUN, YOU DON’T AT FIRST SEE ANYTHING AMISS.

GRADUALLY, YOU REALIZE THE BUS IS STOPPED AT A CROWDED INTERSECTION. THE POWER IS OUT AND THE TRAFFIC SIGNALS ARE REPEATEDLY BLINKING RED. A TRAFFIC COP IS STANDING IN THE MIDDLE OF THE INTERSECTION, DIRECTING TRAFFIC. WAIT A SECOND, SHE—WELL, OF COURSE, SHE’S WEARING WHITE GLOVES! IT’S PART OF HER UNIFORM. PERFECTLY NATURAL. NO CAUSE FOR ALARM. NONETHELESS, YOU CAN’T HELP EXPERIENCING A SMALL SHIVER.

SURVEYING THE STREETSCAPE FURTHER, YOU ARE SURPRISED TO SEE A MANHOLE COVER OPEN AND FLIP OVER ONTO THE ASPHALT. A CONSTRUCTION WORKER IN A YELLOW HARDHAT AND AN ORANGE JUMPSUIT CLIMBS OUT FROM UNDER THE STREET. HE IS ALSO WEARING WHITE GLOVES. PROBABLY THEY ARE WORK GLOVES, YOU THINK. BUT STRANGE THAT THEY ARE WHITE. NOT VERY PRACTICAL FOR CONSTRUCTION. WELL, THAT’S HIS PROBLEM. NO REASON TO PANIC.

AT FIRST YOU THINK IT’S A TRICK OF THE LIGHT, BUT THE MAN SITTING AT THE BUS STOP ON THE FAR SIDE OF THE STREET ALSO APPEARS TO BE WEARING WHITE GLOVES. ON SECOND INSPECTION, YOU CONFIRM THAT, YES, HE IS, IN FACT, WEARING WHITE GLOVES. BUT WHY? GIVEN THE BLACK SUIT AND THE MUSIC STAND LEANING AGAINST THE BENCH NEXT TO HIM, MAYBE HE IS AN ORCHESTRA CONDUCTOR? CONDUCTORS WEAR GLOVES. THERE IS NO REAL EVIDENCE HE IS A MEMBER OF THE MIDNIGHT SUN, AFTER ALL.

AND YET. COMMON SENSE TELLS YOU: TWO PEOPLE WEARING GLOVES MIGHT BE A COINCIDENCE, THREE PEOPLE IS CAUSE FOR CONCERN.

YOUR CONCERN HEIGHTENS WHEN A MARCHING BAND SUDDENLY EMERGES FROM BEHIND A LINE OF CARS AND STARTS CROSSING THE INTERSECTION RIGHT IN FRONT OF YOUR SCHOOL BUS. THERE ARE OVER A HUNDRED BAND MEMBERS—TRUMPETERS, TUBA PLAYERS, DRUMMERS, THE WORKS—ALL IN RED UNIFORMS DECORATED WITH GOLD BRAID.

AND ALL WEARING WHITE GLOVES.

YOU LOOK AT THEIR FACES, HOPING FOR A SIGN THAT THEY ARE A REAL MARCHING BAND—MAYBE A HIGH SCHOOL MARCHING BAND—AND NOT AN ARMY OF EVIL ALCHEMISTS. BUT THEIR EYES ARE COLD. AND THEIR SKIN, WHILE YOUTHFUL, IS PALE AND ALMOST TOO TAUT. IN YOUR IMAGINATION, THEY TRANSFORM FROM A HANDSOME, HEALTHY MARCHING BAND TO A BAND OF SKELETONS, MARCHING ON THE DAY OF THE DEAD.

BY NOW, YOUR PULSE IS RACING. YOUR MIND IS SWIMMING WITH FEARFUL THOUGHTS. THE BUS IS STOPPED AND CANNOT MOVE WITHOUT PLOWING THROUGH THE BAND. THIS IS THE CRUCIAL MOMENT. YOU HAVE SEEN THEM. BUT THEY HAVE NOT YET SEEN YOU.

IT IS TIME TO ACT.

THE DRILL STARTS…

NOW.

PLEASE DOCUMENT ALL YOUR ACTIONS SECOND BY SECOND ON A TIME CARD. VIDEO FOOTAGE OF YOUR DRILL IS WELCOME BUT SHOULD NOT BE CONSIDERED A SUBSTITUTE FOR YOUR WRITTEN SUBMISSION.

SEND TO:

T.E.A.S.E.
P. BOSCH EMERGENCY DRILL 
ATTN: DRILL SERGEANT

CHAPTER FOUR
COTINUED

Max-Ernest squinted, trying to make out the features of the boy waving at him. In truth, he was just as surprised as the others.
“Don’t tell me you don’t remember your old comrade-at-arms!” the boy protested when he reached the Nuts Table. He smiled dazzlingly and removed his monocle. “It’s only been a year since our last teatime tête-à-tête.”*  
“A year and a half,” corrected Max-Ernest, finally recognizing him—but only barely. “Actually, a year and eight months.”
“Ah, there’s the Max-Ernest we all know and love! Always exact, isn’t he? Don’t make a mistake around him—he’ll catch it every time,” said the boy, chuckling.
The other two boys at the table laughed in appreciative agreement. The new kid had a peculiarly old-fashioned way of speaking, but he was so relaxed and self-confident that it didn’t seem weird so much as adult and sophisticated.
“Aren’t you going to introduce me to your chums?”
It took a moment for Max-Ernest to understand the question, because first of all, he’d never heard the word chum spoken aloud (only read it in old books about a pair of brother detectives),* and second of all (as we established earlier), Daniel-not-Danielle and Glob weren’t his chums in the first place.  
“Um, OK. Daniel-not-Danielle, Glob, this is, uh, Benjamin Blake,” said Max-Ernest. “He used to go here.”
At least it appeared to be Benjamin Blake.
When Max-Ernest had last seen Benjamin, he’d been several inches shorter and had looked years younger. But it was the way he spoke now more than the way he looked that represented the biggest change. The old Benjamin had mumbled his words to such an extent that almost nobody could decipher them. What’s more, whenever somebody bothered to figure out what he was saying, it turned out that his ideas were even less intelligible than his words. As an extreme synesthete, his senses were all entangled with each other, and his thoughts were a confused jumble of colors and sounds, tastes and smells.**
Today his speech was a study in perfect elocution. He sounded, not to mention looked, like the star of an old black-and-white movie. Most surprising of all was his manner; once shy and awkward to the point where he nearly couldn’t function in normal life, he was now all cheerful insouciance and casual savoir faire.*  
“I thought you were at a spec—I mean, a different school now,” said Max-Ernest when he’d recovered from his initial shock.
He and Cass had been told that Benjamin was going to a “special” school for kids with disabilities. Because of Benjamin’s value to the Midnight Sun, they were supposed to be keeping an eye on him for the Terces Society. (At one time, the Midnight Sun had believed Benjamin’s unique brain chemistry might be the key to unlocking the formula of the Secret.) But they’d figured a school like that would keep him safe, so they had pretty much allowed themselves to forget about him. With a flush of guilt, Max-Ernest realized they’d never even checked to make sure Benjamin had enrolled. He could have been anywhere for all Cass and Max-Ernest knew.
The Midnight Sun had kidnapped Benjamin once before; it was a stroke of luck they hadn’t kidnapped him again.
“Oh, but I was at a special school—very special,” said Benjamin. “The New Promethean Academy. It was sort of a finishing school. You know, to teach proper social decorum and so on and so forth. But in my case you could say it was a starting school as well. I feel they really brought me to life.”
Max-Ernest couldn’t disagree. Although he wasn’t sure that he didn’t prefer the old, nonliving Benjamin.
“May I sit down?”
Max-Ernest nodded and Benjamin took Cass’s seat. (It was very likely the first time in the history of the Nuts Table that somebody had asked permission before sitting.)
Max-Ernest tried to think of something to say to the old-friend-now-stranger in front of him. “So… are you going to enter a painting in Renaissance Masters this year?”
Renaissance Masters was the name of a student art competition held in conjunction with the Renaissance Faire. Benjamin Blake had won the year he’d entered it.
“No, I don’t paint anymore.” “Really?”
Max-Ernest was surprised. In the past, apart from being a prizewinning artist, Benjamin had loved painting. Painting was almost the only way he could communicate with the outside world.
“Oh, art is a childish pursuit, don’t you think? Unless you’re a truly great artist, I mean. If you’re not going to be Michelangelo or Raphael, what’s the point? I detest mediocrity.”
“Yeah, me, too,” said Max-Ernest reflexively. Then he thought about it for a moment. “Except how do you know if you’re going to be great at something if you don’t try? Michelangelo didn’t know he was going to be Michelangelo until he was… Michelangelo. How ’bout that?”
Benjamin smiled witheringly. “So encouraging! So wise! You sound like one of my poor little parents.”
Max-Ernest blushed. He had to admit, it did sound like something a parent would say. “Anyway, some people thought you were great.”
“Sure, compared to most kids. But my destiny lies elsewhere.” Benjamin held his monocle to the light and peered into it for a moment, as if his destiny might lie inside it.
Max-Ernest noticed that there were two lenses, one on top of the other. That was why the monocle had bulged slightly out of Benjamin’s eye socket. “Wow, I’ve never seen a monocle like that. It’s like a visual oxymoron. You know, because mono means one but it’s got two lenses. Actually, you could say it’s a visual visual oxymoron. You see the contradiction in terms, so it’s visual in that sense. But it’s also visual in the sense that you look through it. How ’bout that?”
“Huh. I never thought about it that way,” said Benjamin, quickly bringing it back up to his eye.
“Does the second lens make it stronger or something?”
“Something like that… Now, on to serious matters. How is our friend Cassandra? I am so concerned about her. She’s still in the hospital, I take it?”
Max-Ernest frowned. “How did you know she was in the hospital?” he whispered. He looked over at Daniel-not-Danielle and Glob, making it clear that they weren’t meant to be included in the conversation. They turned away (but somehow I doubt they stopped listening).
“I thought everybody did. I didn’t know it was supposed to be a secret.”
Max-Ernest regarded his old/new schoolmate with alarm. If an outsider like Benjamin knew about Cass, then anybody might. Even the Midnight Sun. Max-Ernest wasn’t sure what they would do with the information—kidnap Cass from the hospital? poison her IV?—but he didn’t want to wait to find out.
His mission was more urgent than ever.
“Anyway, don’t tell anyone else—she wouldn’t want people to talk about it,” he said. “And don’t worry about her—she’ll be OK soon.”
“I hope so! My goodness, what would happen to all the disasters in the world if our dear Cass wasn’t around to predict them?”
Max-Ernest nodded his assent. Although his powers of sarcasm detection had improved greatly over the last couple of years, if there was any sarcasm in Benjamin’s voice—and I’m not saying there was—it was far too subtle for Max-Ernest to discern.
Lunch ended shortly thereafter. As the reunited friends parted ways, Benjamin coughed and lowered his voice.
“Max-Ernest, old chum, I don’t want to embarrass you, but there’s a piece of paper stuck to your back…. May I?”
Gravely and politely, Benjamin unpinned the paper and handed it to Max-Ernest.
Max-Ernest groaned. It was a classic schoolyard prank—one played on him dozens of times over the years. There were two words written on the paper:
KICK ME
“Thanks,” he said through gritted teeth.
“Don’t mention it.” Benjamin gave a little bow, then sauntered away.
Max-Ernest was about to toss the offending paper in the trash when he noticed that there was writing on the back side. It looked like some kind of travel advisory.

WARNING:
L TRAIN – ORD, FARE CHANGING. BRING OLIVES, NOT N-WORDS.

The wording was so strange that Max-Ernest immediately suspected he was looking at a coded message from the Terces Society. Travel-derived encryptions were a personal favorite of Pietro’s. But what did it mean? Max-Ernest could tell at a glance it wasn’t a keyword code or any kind of simple alphabet substitution.
ORD were the call letters for Chicago O’Hare Airport. Was he meant to go there? Why? How?* Presumably, there was an L (short for elevated) train in Chicago that led to the airport. But as for the fare changing, why should he care? He didn’t even know how much the old fare had been.  
BRING OLIVES, NOT N-WORDS. Max-Ernest figured the key to decoding the message lay in that last sentence, simply because it was the oddest. Olive was a word/name that occurred often in palindromic form—e.g., EVIL = OLIVE. The most likely solution, Max-Ernest concluded, would involve if not a palindrome then at least an anagram. WORDS = SWORD? But then what about the N?
The n-word was usually no, but the plural suggested the meaning had to be something else.
Bring olives, not nuts? Not newspapers? Not nuclear bombs?
Uncharacteristically, Max-Ernest gave up and slipped the message into his back pocket. Normally, a message from the Terces Society would be a top priority for him, and he would forgo all other activity until it was decoded. But this one would have to wait, he decided. He had a more pressing matter to attend to: Cass.*  
A moment later, in the library, Max-Ernest wrote an e-mail to Yo-Yoji, telling him about the unlikely return of Benjamin Blake. And about how desperate he was to bring Cass back to the present.
Get inside Cass’s head, Pietro had instructed him. He had to figure out how right away.

CHAPTER FOUR
CONTINUED

Max-Ernest squinted, trying to make out the features of the boy waving at him. In truth, he was just as surprised as the others.
“Don’t tell me you don’t remember your old comrade-at-arms!” the boy protested when he reached the Nuts Table. He smiled dazzlingly and removed his monocle. “It’s only been a year since our last teatime tête-à-tête.”*  
“A year and a half,” corrected Max-Ernest, finally recognizing him—but only barely. “Actually, a year and eight months.”
“Ah, there’s the Max-Ernest we all know and love! Always exact, isn’t he? Don’t make a mistake around him—he’ll catch it every time,” said the boy, chuckling.
The other two boys at the table laughed in appreciative agreement. The new kid had a peculiarly old-fashioned way of speaking, but he was so relaxed and self-confident that it didn’t seem weird so much as adult and sophisticated.
“Aren’t you going to introduce me to your chums?”
It took a moment for Max-Ernest to understand the question, because first of all, he’d never heard the word chum spoken aloud (only read it in old books about a pair of brother detectives),* and second of all (as we established earlier), Daniel-not-Danielle and Glob weren’t his chums in the first place.  
“Um, OK. Daniel-not-Danielle, Glob, this is, uh, Benjamin Blake,” said Max-Ernest. “He used to go here.”
At least it appeared to be Benjamin Blake.
When Max-Ernest had last seen Benjamin, he’d been several inches shorter and had looked years younger. But it was the way he spoke now more than the way he looked that represented the biggest change. The old Benjamin had mumbled his words to such an extent that almost nobody could decipher them. What’s more, whenever somebody bothered to figure out what he was saying, it turned out that his ideas were even less intelligible than his words. As an extreme synesthete, his senses were all entangled with each other, and his thoughts were a confused jumble of colors and sounds, tastes and smells.**
Today his speech was a study in perfect elocution. He sounded, not to mention looked, like the star of an old black-and-white movie. Most surprising of all was his manner; once shy and awkward to the point where he nearly couldn’t function in normal life, he was now all cheerful insouciance and casual savoir faire.*  
“I thought you were at a spec—I mean, a different school now,” said Max-Ernest when he’d recovered from his initial shock.
He and Cass had been told that Benjamin was going to a “special” school for kids with disabilities. Because of Benjamin’s value to the Midnight Sun, they were supposed to be keeping an eye on him for the Terces Society. (At one time, the Midnight Sun had believed Benjamin’s unique brain chemistry might be the key to unlocking the formula of the Secret.) But they’d figured a school like that would keep him safe, so they had pretty much allowed themselves to forget about him. With a flush of guilt, Max-Ernest realized they’d never even checked to make sure Benjamin had enrolled. He could have been anywhere for all Cass and Max-Ernest knew.
The Midnight Sun had kidnapped Benjamin once before; it was a stroke of luck they hadn’t kidnapped him again.
“Oh, but I was at a special school—very special,” said Benjamin. “The New Promethean Academy. It was sort of a finishing school. You know, to teach proper social decorum and so on and so forth. But in my case you could say it was a starting school as well. I feel they really brought me to life.”
Max-Ernest couldn’t disagree. Although he wasn’t sure that he didn’t prefer the old, nonliving Benjamin.
“May I sit down?”
Max-Ernest nodded and Benjamin took Cass’s seat. (It was very likely the first time in the history of the Nuts Table that somebody had asked permission before sitting.)
Max-Ernest tried to think of something to say to the old-friend-now-stranger in front of him. “So… are you going to enter a painting in Renaissance Masters this year?”
Renaissance Masters was the name of a student art competition held in conjunction with the Renaissance Faire. Benjamin Blake had won the year he’d entered it.
“No, I don’t paint anymore.” “Really?”
Max-Ernest was surprised. In the past, apart from being a prizewinning artist, Benjamin had loved painting. Painting was almost the only way he could communicate with the outside world.
“Oh, art is a childish pursuit, don’t you think? Unless you’re a truly great artist, I mean. If you’re not going to be Michelangelo or Raphael, what’s the point? I detest mediocrity.”
“Yeah, me, too,” said Max-Ernest reflexively. Then he thought about it for a moment. “Except how do you know if you’re going to be great at something if you don’t try? Michelangelo didn’t know he was going to be Michelangelo until he was… Michelangelo. How ’bout that?”
Benjamin smiled witheringly. “So encouraging! So wise! You sound like one of my poor little parents.”
Max-Ernest blushed. He had to admit, it did sound like something a parent would say. “Anyway, some people thought you were great.”
“Sure, compared to most kids. But my destiny lies elsewhere.” Benjamin held his monocle to the light and peered into it for a moment, as if his destiny might lie inside it.
Max-Ernest noticed that there were two lenses, one on top of the other. That was why the monocle had bulged slightly out of Benjamin’s eye socket. “Wow, I’ve never seen a monocle like that. It’s like a visual oxymoron. You know, because mono means one but it’s got two lenses. Actually, you could say it’s a visual visual oxymoron. You see the contradiction in terms, so it’s visual in that sense. But it’s also visual in the sense that you look through it. How ’bout that?”
“Huh. I never thought about it that way,” said Benjamin, quickly bringing it back up to his eye.
“Does the second lens make it stronger or something?”
“Something like that… Now, on to serious matters. How is our friend Cassandra? I am so concerned about her. She’s still in the hospital, I take it?”
Max-Ernest frowned. “How did you know she was in the hospital?” he whispered. He looked over at Daniel-not-Danielle and Glob, making it clear that they weren’t meant to be included in the conversation. They turned away (but somehow I doubt they stopped listening).
“I thought everybody did. I didn’t know it was supposed to be a secret.”
Max-Ernest regarded his old/new schoolmate with alarm. If an outsider like Benjamin knew about Cass, then anybody might. Even the Midnight Sun. Max-Ernest wasn’t sure what they would do with the information—kidnap Cass from the hospital? poison her IV?—but he didn’t want to wait to find out.
His mission was more urgent than ever.
“Anyway, don’t tell anyone else—she wouldn’t want people to talk about it,” he said. “And don’t worry about her—she’ll be OK soon.”
“I hope so! My goodness, what would happen to all the disasters in the world if our dear Cass wasn’t around to predict them?”
Max-Ernest nodded his assent. Although his powers of sarcasm detection had improved greatly over the last couple of years, if there was any sarcasm in Benjamin’s voice—and I’m not saying there was—it was far too subtle for Max-Ernest to discern.
Lunch ended shortly thereafter. As the reunited friends parted ways, Benjamin coughed and lowered his voice.
“Max-Ernest, old chum, I don’t want to embarrass you, but there’s a piece of paper stuck to your back…. May I?”
Gravely and politely, Benjamin unpinned the paper and handed it to Max-Ernest.
Max-Ernest groaned. It was a classic schoolyard prank—one played on him dozens of times over the years. There were two words written on the paper:
KICK ME
“Thanks,” he said through gritted teeth.
“Don’t mention it.” Benjamin gave a little bow, then sauntered away.
Max-Ernest was about to toss the offending paper in the trash when he noticed that there was writing on the back side. It looked like some kind of travel advisory.

WARNING:
L TRAIN – ORD, FARE CHANGING. BRING OLIVES, NOT N-WORDS.

The wording was so strange that Max-Ernest immediately suspected he was looking at a coded message from the Terces Society. Travel-derived encryptions were a personal favorite of Pietro’s. But what did it mean? Max-Ernest could tell at a glance it wasn’t a keyword code or any kind of simple alphabet substitution.
ORD were the call letters for Chicago O’Hare Airport. Was he meant to go there? Why? How?* Presumably, there was an L (short for elevated) train in Chicago that led to the airport. But as for the fare changing, why should he care? He didn’t even know how much the old fare had been.  
BRING OLIVES, NOT N-WORDS. Max-Ernest figured the key to decoding the message lay in that last sentence, simply because it was the oddest. Olive was a word/name that occurred often in palindromic form—e.g., EVIL = OLIVE. The most likely solution, Max-Ernest concluded, would involve if not a palindrome then at least an anagram. WORDS = SWORD? But then what about the N?
The n-word was usually no, but the plural suggested the meaning had to be something else.
Bring olives, not nuts? Not newspapers? Not nuclear bombs?
Uncharacteristically, Max-Ernest gave up and slipped the message into his back pocket. Normally, a message from the Terces Society would be a top priority for him, and he would forgo all other activity until it was decoded. But this one would have to wait, he decided. He had a more pressing matter to attend to: Cass.*  
A moment later, in the library, Max-Ernest wrote an e-mail to Yo-Yoji, telling him about the unlikely return of Benjamin Blake. And about how desperate he was to bring Cass back to the present.
Get inside Cass’s head, Pietro had instructed him. He had to figure out how right away.

CHAPTER -SIX
The Royal Kennels
  
Compared to the horrifying description of the pigpen in “The Legend of Cabbage Face,” the royal kennels didn’t look like such a bad place to stay the night. Indeed, they were rather splendid.
The kennels occupied a long brick building designed to resemble the palace in miniature. Inside, the walls were painted with murals of dogs frolicking in the woods and giving chase to a frightened fox while chubby canine cherubim smiled down at them. Each of the King’s prize beagles had his own tufted velvet pillow trimmed with gold braid so thick and opulent, you would have expected to see it hanging from the canopy above the King’s own bed. Meanwhile, each beagle meal was served in a silver tureen with a royal crest engraved in the center and the beagle’s name engraved on the rim.
And such meals!
As the visibly hungry homunculus was dragged in by the soldier, the regal beagles were feasting on all sorts of meats and poultries dripping with delicious fats and juices. Cass noticed the homunculus’s eyes linger on a standing rib roast currently being devoured by the first and fattest and clearly most favored in the line of dogs—Terrence III, according to his bowl. Is this where Mr. Cabbage Face develops his obsession with crown roasts? Cass wondered.
As the homunculus passed by, his mouth watering, Terrence looked up from his bowl and casually let fall a rib from his teeth. It landed at the hungry homunculus’s feet, and the homunculus gratefully reached for it. But Terrence snatched it back, snarling, before the homunculus made contact.
The homunculus winced as if he’d been hit.
Then, as if once weren’t enough, the overfed beagle again dropped the bone in front of the homunculus—and again snatched it back before the homunculus could reach it.
Cass shook her head in disbelief. What kind of dog intentionally tortured someone like that?
Alas, the luxurious life of a regal beagle was not for a lowly homunculus. Once the soldier handed him over to the trainer, it became clear there were other plans for the homunculus. He was not to sleep on a velvet pillow or even to sleep at all, the trainer instructed, but rather to spend the night cleaning the kennels of any, shall we say, royal remains that happened to sully the kennels’ polished marble floor. The trainer gave the homunculus a shovel and a mop and made sure he knew that if there were any spots on the floor in the morning, the homunculus would dearly regret it.
Cass waited until all the other humans had left, or perhaps I should say until all the other humanoids had left (considering we’re dealing with an invisible time-traveling girl and a tiny boy-man made in a bottle) before addressing the homunculus.
“You don’t recognize me, do you…? No, of course, you don’t. We haven’t met yet. We won’t meet for five hundred years,” she said as much to remind herself as to enlighten him. “I’m Cassandra. If that’s too long, you can call me Cass. Almost everybody does.”
The homunculus stared at her, perplexed. He seemed unable to understand her words and even less to understand her intentions.
“You don’t know it, but we’re going to be good friends one day. Well, sort of good friends. I have to admit there’s a part of me that will always be a little freaked out because you’re a cannibal.”*  
Perhaps she shouldn’t have mentioned that, Cass thought. It might influence him to try cannibalism sooner.
It was a strange experience, meeting an old friend with whom you share so many memories, and realizing that this person doesn’t remember any of them. She didn’t know how much to tell the young Mr. Cabbage Face, how much to let him learn later on his own. According to the Prime Directive, she shouldn’t be interfering with his normal development; but were the rules for interstellar space travel the same as for intrabrain time travel?*
“Anyway, we have to figure out how to get you out of here,” she said, changing the subject. “Remember, if anybody comes, don’t say anything to me. They can’t see me…. But you can talk now, if you want.”
Cass couldn’t understand why he wasn’t saying anything. Although the homunculus in her memory wasn’t always the most talkative creature in the world, he could talk up a storm when he got going on one of his stories. And the insatiable Mr. Cabbage Face was downright garrulous when you plied him with food and drink.
“Well, first things first—let’s get you food, right?”
Although all the beagles had licked their bowls clean (seemingly relishing eating in front of the starving homunculus), Cass was able to find six leftover roast chickens on a counter.
“Here you go, Mr. Cabbage Face. Six chickens coming up. That should be enough—even for you.”
The beagles yelped in protest, seeing chickens they felt rightfully to be theirs carried away by invisible hands. But the homunculus, showing unexpected spirit, snarled so viciously into Terrence’s ear that not only Terrence but all the dogs sank into their velvet cushions, whimpering with fear.
“I guess some dogs can dish it out, but they can’t take it,” said Cass, shaking her invisible head.
The not-quite-two-foot-tall homunculus ate the six chickens almost faster than Cass was able to hand them to him. Soon there was a familiar pile of bones in front of him, each bone gnawed furiously and with every drop of marrow sucked out.
Cass smiled. Some things never changed. Or rather, never would change over the next five hundred years.
“OK, satisfied now?” she asked after the homunculus had devoured his last bite.
Crouched on the floor, a last bone in each hand, the homunculus looked up at her, unblinking. He either didn’t understand the question or didn’t know how to answer.
“Right. You’re never satisfied. I know.” Cass sighed, leaning against the counter. “What I mean is, did you eat enough so we can think about something else now—like what’s next?”
Cass was torn about what to do:
In “The Legend of Cabbage Face,” she remembered, the Jester finds the homunculus in the pigpen. After offering the homunculus food, he persuades the homunculus to speak. And it is the Jester who frees the homunculus—from the pigpen and from Lord Pharaoh.
Would she be toying too much with fate if she freed the homunculus herself? And shouldn’t she be waiting for the Jester, anyway? Meeting him was her reason for being here. He was why she had eaten the chocolate and journeyed five hundred years into the past.
On the other hand, what if the Jester never showed up? The story had already been proven unreliable. Wasn’t the homunculus’s freedom the most important thing?
“I really don’t know what to do, but if you don’t say something, I might just have to leave you here,” said Cass, not meaning it. “I’ll tell you what—if you talk, I’ll make sure you get one of those crown roasts like the dog had as soon as we get out of here, OK?”
The bribery was a desperate tactic, but it had worked in the past. Or rather in the future. “Come on, think of those juicy bones. I know you can speak.”
“I c-can,” he whispered. “What’s that? I didn’t hear you.”
“I can,” said the homunculus more loudly. “I can speak.” “Well done!”
Cass froze. Who had said those last two words?
She heard the jingling of the bells on his hat before she saw him. The Jester.
“I knew thou couldst speak. I came on purpose to make thee squeak!”
He entered, the dogs barking snappishly after him but still too scared to get up from their cushions.
“I thought to make many trips. But I see I’ve already loose’d your lips!”
Cass stared. She couldn’t believe she was standing in the same room as the Jester, the founder of the Terces Society, her only known ancestor. Her previous encounters with him—also chocolate-induced—had been so fleeting and dreamlike, he hadn’t seemed real.
He looked much as Cass remembered—round freckled cheeks, orange curls peeking out of his hat—but at the same time much younger. Of course, his most striking feature was identical to her most striking feature: the big pointy ears.
The Jester grinned, nearly twirling around, he was so pleased with himself. “Like magic I give thee the gift of speech. I need not lift my hand to reach!”
What could she possibly say to him that would measure up to the importance of the occasion? True, she was invisible, but she would just have to make him overlook that.
And she would have to try to overlook the fact that he was taking credit for getting the homunculus to talk. (Normally, this was the kind of thing that made her furious.)
The Jester glanced around, making sure he and the homunculus were alone.
“We have only the animals for audience,” he whispered. “So I may tell you my secret.” Cass’s ears pricked up. Was she about to hear the Secret already?
“I tire of this palace place. Like you, I seek to be my own master. Lord Pharaoh keeps you on a leash. So the King keeps me. Though you see not the chain, I feel no less the pain.”
He studied the homunculus’s face for a reaction, then continued, “I have a most daring plan.
By cover of night, we shall flee. Far from king and pharaoh, where we shall both be free.” The Jester paced excitedly, gesturing with his hands.
“What then, you ask? Where go our feet? What shall we eat?” The Jester smiled. “Ah, but this is the best part. ’Tis a dream come true. We shall perform together! Think on it—the Human Fool and the Wise Monster. I shall make them laugh, you shall make them weep. And together we shall make a big gold heap!”
He formed the heap of gold with his hands, then rubbed them together with anticipation. “So, my little friend—what say you?”
The homunculus opened his mouth, then clamped it shut. Whether because there was nothing to say or too much.
The Jester nodded. “You speak no more tonight. Good. You are my ideal friend, for I talk without end. You see, I never learned to hold my tongue, only to fold it—”
He started to fold his tongue in demonstration, then, seeing the homunculus’s blank expression, he gave up.
“What? I do not make you laugh…? You’re right, there was little fun in that pun. How’s this, then—did you hear the one—? Oh, what’s the use? I can no more tell a joke than flap my wings and fly. A fine jester am I!”
He sank down to the floor and slumped against the wall, his enthusiasm draining away.
“But you, you are a living miracle,” said the Jester bitterly. “The talking homunculus. To see you, people would travel the world. And what am I? A fool! Not even a full-fool, I am a half-wit. An idiot. No wonder you will not have me. I do not deserve to work with a talent such as you….”
The Jester lifted his head, clenching his jaw in determination.
“Well, if I must, I’ll strike out on my own. I am used to working alone. I am a professional, after all. And you, what have you ever done? It wasn’t you that made you! You are not your own miracle, you are Lord Pharaoh’s,” said the Jester scornfully. “I offer you the benefit of my professional expertise, and you spurn me without so much as an ‘if you please…’”
He put his head in his hands, the picture of despair, while the homunculus watched, baffled. “Forgive me, I know not what I say,” came the Jester’s muffled apology. “You have done no wrong.”
Now sitting on the counter, Cass contemplated the Jester in chagrined disbelief. Was this really the great man she’d read and heard so much about? Only her experience listening to Max-Ernest prepared her to follow the Jester’s wild leaps in logic. As for his radical mood swings, she was fairly certain Max-Ernest would diagnose the Jester as bipolar.
The Jester looked over at the homunculus again and took a deep breath. “It is time for my confessional: I am no more a professional. I do not run from the King, the King has run me out. Now that Lord Pharaoh has his ear, he says my sense of humor is in doubt. ’Tis true, tonight I ate my last of the royal repast.”
Tears ran down his cheeks and it was all Cass could do to resist the impulse to offer him a reassuring hug.
“Yesterday, I was the King’s jester. Today I am merely the King’s yester.”
Pulling himself together, the Jester stood and addressed the homunculus once more.
“I hoped you would be my partner, but I will no longer try to barter. Let them not say of me that I failed to set you free.”
Eyes shining, he put his hand to his heart, overwhelmed by his own noble nature. “If I cannot be a proper fool, at least I shall be a proper man!”
His words were punctuated by the bang of a door and the renewed barking of the beagles. “Hark! What do I hear?”
Footsteps. The unmistakable synchronized footsteps of the King’s soldiers.
Cass quickly surveyed their surroundings. The closest thing to an exit was a window above the counter, large enough for a homunculus but too small for a full-size human. She reached up and pushed it open.
“Look—an open window!” The Jester pointed, as if he’d personally discovered it.
“Wait. Your collar—,” said Cass aloud to the homunculus before she could stop herself. She was worried that the chain dangling from the homunculus’s collar would catch on the window. A large pair of gardening shears were sitting nearby. In a flash, she clipped his collar off.
“Ah, good, I’m glad you are rid of that!” The Jester, confused about what he’d just seen and heard, shrugged it off. “Now, you climb through the window, and I… I will stay and face the King’s soldiers,” he said in an exaggeratedly strong voice.
The homunculus did not have to be told twice. He sprang up onto the counter like an oversize frog and climbed out the window just as the soldiers stormed in.
Lord Pharaoh followed.
“Where is he?” he demanded, towering over the Jester. “What have you done with my homunculus?”
“He’s not yours,” replied the Jester. “He is his own self’s. And I have done nothing but what any man would do who has a heart.”
“You may have a heart but you have no brain. Arrest this baboon!” Lord Pharaoh pointed to the Jester’s hat. “I do not want to hear those bells jingle again unless they’re deep inside the palace dungeon!”
As Cass watched helplessly, the soldiers hog-tied the Jester and dragged him out of the kennels, leaving Cass alone with the jeering barks of the regal beagles.*  

CHAPTER -FOUR
Anastasia

An axe crashed through the cell door.
Anastasia stepped through the splintered wood, holding a candle in front of her. Next to her: her bewhiskered colleague, Thomas, holding his axe.
“Burnes? Gatewood? Are you in here? I told you they couldn’t keep you two for long!” Anastasia called into the darkness, eyes glinting above her mask. Her long hair fell heavily over her shoulders.
The Jester blinked, obviously surprised to see this mysterious woman standing in the cell doorway.
“Sorry, m’lady, it’s just me and—” He looked in Cass’s direction but of course didn’t see her. “Just me.”
“And who is this Just Me?” Anastasia looked at the Jester sitting there with his hat askew. “Please tell me you are not a jester and that that is just a disguise! Does the King dare insult me by locking up my men with fools?”
“Do not worry,” said the Jester dryly. “I’m not a real jester… anymore. The King saw to that.”
“Come on. Nobody’s in here—,” said Anastasia’s bandit colleague.
“That’s right, Thomas. Nobody. Merely a tool of royalty who is now abandoned property. This is the thanks he gets for making a monarch laugh while his subjects starve? Well, just deserts, I say! How does the saying go? If you lie down with dogs, you will rise with fleas?”
“If you saw how comfortably the King’s dogs lie, you would lie down with them, too!” declared the Jester. “Their pillows are very fine indeed. As for the royal fleas, they do not bite but merely scratch when you complain of itch. They are but servants in miniature livery.”
Cass stifled a laugh. But Anastasia did not appear to be listening. With a last contemptuous look at the Jester, she swung her hair around and left, leaving the cell door open.
“Let’s go!” whispered Cass.
“What? Oh. Yes,” answered the Jester, his eyes still focused on the spot where Anastasia had been standing. “I’m glad you’re here. I thought maybe I’d imagined you after all.”
“No. I’m right here. In the flesh. Well, in the invisible flesh—” She gave him a tug.

Outside their cell it was chaos.
Every door in the dungeon had been opened in the search for the captured bandits, and the cheers of the escaping prisoners rang through the corridors so loudly, it sounded like they were in some kind of underground sports stadium.
Cass hesitated before following the other prisoners out of the dungeon. “Ugh. Those poor guys…”
All the prison guards had been thrown into the central cesspool. Mouths gagged, hands bound, they stood up to their shoulders in muck, watching with mute rage.
The Jester chuckled. “Why the angry faces, gents? Are you not slugs in your native element?
That smelly mud to you should be mother’s milk!”

A few of the guards lunged toward him—only to slip deeper into the cesspool. From the looks in their eyes, the guards were all thinking about what they would do with the Jester if they ever got their hands on him again. And they weren’t planning to pat him on the back.
“C’mon—” Cass clutched the Jester’s hand as they ran up the stone stairs and out into the moonlit night.

Just outside the exit, the bandits were waiting on horseback, a few riderless horses at the ready. “Look—let’s get on that gray one over there!” whispered Cass, pointing to a horse standing by a wall a few feet away. The horse whinnied invitingly.
The Jester hesitated. “I have a terrible fear of horses….”
“Oh great,” Cass groaned. “Could you be more like Max-Ernest if you tried? I don’t think so.”
“What?”
“Never mind. There’s no time to be afraid. We have to get out of here!”
“Don’t worry,” said the Jester, standing tall. “I conquered the fear long ago. The first time I escaped from prison—”
“You were in prison before?” asked Cass, alarmed. “What did you do?”
“Nothing. I was referring to my parents’ house. It was far worse than this place—” Unexpectedly agile, the Jester hopped onto the gray horse and pulled Cass up after him. Anastasia reined her black steed next to them.
“You, Jester—what are you doing? That’s not your horse!”
The Jester laughed. “You’re a fine one to talk, Madame Thief! I would bet a king’s ransom that that horse you’re sitting on is not yours, either. But if you like, I will give this one back after we have escaped.”
Anastasia was about to offer a retort when a dozen soldiers on horseback appeared from behind the palace, heading in their direction.
“Very well,” she said, displeased. “Follow us. But if you lose that horse, you will pay with your life. Men—!” She whistled, and the bandits took off in a thunder of hooves.

Cass woke with a stiff neck and with a sharp twig poking into her back. Above her, a maple tree made patterns of green and gold. It was day.
Raising her head slightly, she spied a few burlap tents and a trail of smoke wending upward. Instinctively, she reached for the Double Monocle, then remembered it was gone. Oh well, she had survived without X-ray vision in the past (or rather the future); she would have to again. Rubbing her eyes, she looked out at the campsite in the old-fashioned way.
It was the bandits’ campsite, she deduced when she saw a surly-looking man, Thomas, striding toward her, his black mask hanging around his neck and his axe swinging on his thigh. She was about to greet him when he walked right past her, humming in the way one does only when one is alone. She’d forgotten for a moment he couldn’t see her.
Feeling like a spy, she watched him stop at a tree a few feet away. When a tiny stream started trickling in her direction, she had the awful realization that he was relieving himself of the previous night’s drink.
She scooted to safety just in time.

As the bandit returned to camp, the Jester walked up to Cass. Or rather to his hat, which was sitting on a rock five feet away from her. It was the first time Cass had seen him bareheaded in the daylight. His orange curls sprang up in all directions like coiled wires.
“Cass?” he whispered to the hat. “Are you up?”
“Yes, but I’m over here to your right,” she whispered back. “Where?” He looked around, confused. “I left my hat as a marker.”
“I move around a lot when I sleep. Wait. Stay there….” She got up and walked over to him. “Here I am,” she said, picking up his hat.
The Jester stepped back in surprise as the hat appeared to fly into the air and land on his head.
“Ah, I see that you are,” he said, recovering. “I brought you breakfast.” He held up a metal cup full of some kind of gruel-like porridge.
“I wasn’t sure if you ate real food or if you only needed invisible sustenance,” said the Jester, watching the cup move in the air.
“I’m starving. But this is disgusting. What is it?”
The Jester laughed. “Do they not have frumenty where you come from…? Well, enjoy it. Those selfish thieves have a pile of treasure that would be the envy of dragons, but I had to beg and plead for that little tin cup.”*  
“They’re not selfish. They steal from the rich to give to the poor. Like Robin Hood.”
The Jester laughed. “Who? All I know is that I’m poor and they aren’t giving any treasure to me. I think the only reason they let me have that cup was that it was stuck to their lodestone. Have you ever seen a lodestone?”
“I don’t think so….”
“Marvelous thing,” said the Jester. “Metal sticks right to it as if it were glue.” “You mean it’s a magnet?”
The Jester’s face froze. “Quick, give the cup back to me!” he whispered. “But I’m not done!”
“Just give it to me—Anastasia’s coming.” He grabbed the cup so hard he spilled frumenty all over himself.
“Practicing for a comedy?”
Anastasia regarded the Jester with arched eyebrows. Without her mask, she was even more beautiful, but no less formidable. “I think next time perhaps you should use an empty cup for rehearsal.”
“It’s not the same,” said the Jester, playing along. “I need to feel the spill to play the role.” “And yet you need not a real actor with whom to say your lines? I saw you talking a moment ago. He is very talented, I thought. He who can speak to the air.”
“Watch and I shall pluck a whole world from the air. My comedy is my magic, my jokes are my spells.”
“Perhaps,” said Anastasia, turning serious. “But your spells have no place here. They do not protect us against the King’s men. Nor do they clothe the poor.”
“Yes, but they feed the soul.”
“We want to feed the hungry. That is our only goal.”
“Must their food be so somber? Do not the poor deserve a merry dinner?” “So they can forget their hunger? Forget injustice?”
“No, so they can laugh at it. ’Tis not the same.”
The bandit shook her head. “The men and I have agreed, you must go. On foot. Do not forget, the horse is ours. You have five minutes. If you are not gone when I return, we shall remember how close you were to the King and we shall be much less generous with you.”
The Jester watched her leave, uncharacteristically quiet.
Cass looked from the big porridge stain on his shirt to the glum expression on his face. “Sorry if I made you look silly. I should have given you the cup back faster.”
The Jester shrugged sadly. “To her I will always be silly, I think, no matter how I look.”
He forced a smile. “Do not worry—a jester is not a jester who is not sometimes seen talking to himself. Is that not our job—to throw balls from our right hand to our left, and to throw jokes from the left side of our mouth to the right? A jester no more needs an audience than a puppy needs a kitten to chase his tail. Or is it the kitten who does not need the puppy? Or the bird…? What I mean is, I have no more need of Anastasia than a, well…” He stammered, confused by his own analogy. “I am perfectly merry without her, that is all. I never said I wanted to marry her!”
“Who said you did?” asked Cass, slightly mystified.
“Nobody!—I am perfectly capable of chasing my own tail and running in circles all by myself. That is all I am trying to say,” said the Jester, flustered. “Now, my invisible friend, where do we go from here?”
Cass glanced around the woods. She had nowhere else to go. Her goal was to find the Jester and she’d found him.
It was time to ask about the Secret.

CHAPTER SEVEN
The Mopping Hour

Midnight was the mopping hour at the hospital.
When he got to room twelve in the PICU, the janitor looked up from the shiny floor and peered through the door as he did every night. It was sad to see such a young girl lying there like that in the dim green light of the heart monitor. But she was a strong one, he felt. A fighter. He could see it in those pointy ears of hers. He was rooting for her.
He was about to push on when he noticed her lips moving. It’s probably nothing, he thought. Just a twitch. Nonetheless, he leaned his mop against the wall and stepped into the shadowy room.
Her eyes were closed, her face almost completely still. And yet there was no doubt—she was murmuring to herself.
By putting his ear close he was able to make out a few whispered words:
“The Secret… What is the Secret…? You have to tell me the Secret… you have to…”
The janitor shivered. What he wouldn’t have given to see inside the girl’s head just then! There was something about the way she said the word secret that made him think she was talking about the Secret of Secrets, the secret of life itself.
But that wasn’t the point with somebody in her condition, he reminded himself. It wasn’t what she’d said. It was that she’d said it at all.
Should I tell someone? he wondered. He wasn’t sure exactly how significant it was that the unconscious girl had spoken. Had he witnessed a breakthrough? Or did she talk to herself every night?
Just in case, he hurried over to the nurse’s station. Nobody was there. It was then that he noticed the flashing light.
An emergency. Downstairs.
He was reluctant to leave the girl, but he knew he should immediately go down to help.
Tomorrow he would leave a note about the young patient in room twelve. For now, her whispered words would have to wait.

CHAPTER EIGHT
Heist

HELLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLP!!!!!!!”
As Max-Ernest ran screaming through the familiar double doors of the emergency room, he was overwhelmed with a flood of memories. He felt almost sentimental remembering the time he’d come in for a Slurpee-induced brain freeze so intense, he’d been convinced that he had frostbite of the parietal lobe.* The night he forgot that he’d eaten red beets and was so alarmed by the color of his pee that he called 9-1-1 and started dictating his last will and testament to the phone operator. The supersize genetically mutated head lice that turned out only to be cookie crumbs left on his pillow after a midnight snack. The extra-strong strain of poison oak, which he was certain had spread from the outside to his liver if not to his kidneys. The splinter he was positive was tapeworm. The hiccups that proved he had lung disease. The runny nose that meant he had a cerebral hemorrhage. The athlete’s foot that indicated incipient skin cancer or possibly elephantiasis…
In the past, due to the frequency of his medical complaints, Max-Ernest had been accused of such things as paranoia and hypochondria, not to mention alarmism and hysteria. But there was another way to look at it, he decided as he ran through the waiting room—a blur of fluorescent lights, hobbling patients, crying babies. What all his ailments had in common was that they were products of a powerful creative imagination. He had a surplus of brain waves, according to Benjamin. That was his problem.
And a good thing it was, too, because he would need to summon all of his paranoia power and more in the next few moments. Only a true Superhero of Hypochondria, a Master Presenter of Medical Symptoms, a World-Class Worrier, a True Warrior of Words, could create an emergency big enough to draw hospital staff from the upper floors.
“HELP! HELP! HELP!” he screamed again and again at the top of his lungs, grateful that he no longer seemed to have any trouble exercising his vocal cords.
And then he dropped to the floor, writhing and flailing his arms.
As soon as the first orderly rushed over, Max-Ernest started fluttering his eyelids and looking upward so that the whites of his eyes showed.
And then, the pièce de résistance, he bit down—and his mouth erupted with foam.*
Watching through the window, Benjamin smiled. Max-Ernest was a skilled actor—though not, Benjamin reflected with satisfaction, as skilled an actor as Benjamin himself.
Turning away from the delightfully comic spectacle of Max-Ernest’s staged epileptic fit, Benjamin walked quickly toward the hospital’s main entrance.
Inside, a light was flashing over the front desk. The nurse behind the desk stood with her back to the door, listening to the intercom.
“All available staff to Emergency, please. All available staff.”
Quickly glancing around the room to confirm that it was empty of incoming patients, the nurse left her post and rushed off in the direction of the emergency room.
It was just as they’d planned.
Or rather just as Benjamin had planned. There were one or two key parts of the evening’s agenda that he had conveniently failed to mention to Max-Ernest. If all went swimmingly, Max-Ernest would never know what an important moment he was missing. Not until it was too late, anyway.
Consulting Max-Ernest’s scrupulously detailed map, Benjamin proceeded toward the third elevator from the right.
The one marked PICU.
Thank you, Max-Ernest, he thought. And to think, I’m supposed be the one helping you!
When this is all over, I’ll have to send you a present. Some new magic tricks, perhaps?
He had a hunch Max-Ernest would soon be wanting nothing more than to disappear in a puff of smoke. Poor Max-Ernest…
By now, three nurses, two orderlies, and a doctor were standing in a circle around the tragically ill boy lying on the floor. Would-be patients in waiting-room chairs stared with a mixture of curiosity (what is wrong with that guy?) and resentment (why is he getting so much attention when I’ve been here for three hours?).
“Yes, that’s right—I’m having chest pain and shortness of breath,” gasped Max-Ernest, wheezing noisily. “It’s… very… short… see—”
He knew those were the things that were supposed to command the most immediate attention in a hospital, but for some reason the doctor didn’t seem to see it that way.
“Those aren’t necessarily symptoms of epilepsy,” said the doctor, regarding him skeptically from above.
“I know—it’s unrelated. My asthma. Combined with an allergic reaction, I think.” “To what?”
“Vinyl. The flooring is vinyl—see.”
“You’re having an allergic reaction to the floor in here?”
“Yes. The floor is highly toxic. I think you should consider replacing it.”
“That doesn’t explain why you’re here in the first place. Or was your reaction anticipatory?” Max-Ernest nodded vigorously. “Well, that and the fact that I was undergoing cardiac arrest.”
The doctor leaned down to feel Max-Ernest’s pulse. She put a stethoscope to his chest and listened intently.
Max-Ernest breathed in and out as fast as he could—to no avail.
The doctor smiled, standing. “Well, you can rest easy—I’m very confident you’re not having a heart attack.”
“Oh, that’s just because I have white-coat syndrome. You know, when you see a doctor and suddenly your symptoms disappear—but then they come back when the doctor’s gone?”
“Actually, white-coat syndrome, otherwise known as white-coat hypertension, is almost the exact opposite of what you’re describing,” said the doctor smoothly. “It’s when the sight of a doctor induces high blood pressure in patients who otherwise exhibit normal blood pressure. For some reason, I don’t think that’s your problem.”
Max-Ernest silently cursed himself. How could he have gotten that wrong? It was so unlike him! He must be nervous.
“I think the only white coat we need here is one to put on you.” The doctor gestured to the orderly. “Straitjacket, please!”
Max-Ernest turned pale. He knew all about straitjackets from reading biographies of Houdini and other escape artists—and that’s how he knew he wouldn’t be able to escape from one. “I’m not crazy! I just have Munchausen syndrome,” he said desperately (referring to the medical disorder that consists of fabricating medical disorders). “I can control it, I promise!”
“You no more have Munchausen syndrome than I’m a munchkin in Oz,” declared the doctor, towering over Max-Ernest.
The nurse from the reception area strode in. She looked down at Max-Ernest in surprise. “Max-Ernest?! What are you doing here? Are you OK?”
Max-Ernest jumped to his feet. “Nothing! It’s nothing. I’m fine.” Not waiting for a response, he sprinted toward the exit.
Taken by surprise, the nurses and staff watched him go for a moment before running after him.
“Hey, we have to be fast,” Max-Ernest whispered, entering Cass’s room. “Benjamin, can you hear me—?”
Benjamin, who had been leaning over Cass, stood up straight, startled. His monocle fell to the floor. Fumbling, he picked it up and restored it to its place covering his eye.
“Sorry if I scared you,” continued Max-Ernest. “They figured out I was faking. They even figured out I was faking faking. Like that I didn’t even have real Munchausen syndrome. It was fake Munchausen. Which, if you think about it, is a fake fake syndrome syndrome…. Anyway, they’ll be here any second—” He stopped, seeing Benjamin’s expression. “What happened? Is she OK? Were you able to see inside her head?”
“Yes, for a second, I almost… saw…” Benjamin seemed to be in some kind of trance, as if still half inside Cass’s mind. “I almost… I almost reached her…. And then you…” He trailed off. “You mean you…? Wow, that’s great!” said Max-Ernest, excited. “If I stall the nurses for another minute, would that be enough time to… to reach her?” Benjamin nodded, staring down at Cass. “I think so….”
“OK. Maybe I can just run around the floor and make them chase me. How ’bout that?” “Yes… yes. Good idea…”
Max-Ernest hesitated in the doorway, staring at Benjamin. He was thrilled that Benjamin was on the verge of success, and yet he felt strangely uneasy.
“What did you see before… or almost see?”
“The Secret,” said Benjamin softly. The jagged line of Cass’s heart monitor reflected eerily in the monocle—a moving crack in the glass lens. “She was thinking about the Secret, I could tell. I was so close….”
“The Secret? What do you know about the Secret?” asked Max-Ernest, his guard immediately up.
“Oh, I don’t know about it at all, really,” said Benjamin quickly. He looked up at Max- Ernest, regaining his composure. “It’s just that I couldn’t help picking up from you that Cass was looking for the Secret—a secret, I should say. There are so many secrets in the world, after all!”
“Right. I guess I should have tried to hide it more….,” said Max-Ernest. But I did try to hide it—my mind couldn’t be that transparent! he thought.
“Perhaps, but I would have seen anyway.”
But you said you never looked into people’s minds without asking, Max-Ernest thought, but he didn’t say it out loud.
“Now go,” said Benjamin. No longer in his trancelike state, he appeared completely alert— on edge, even. “I need to be alone. It’s very important.”
Max-Ernest stared at his friend. Or rather at the boy he’d thought was his friend. He couldn’t trust Benjamin; he knew it now with certainty.
“Um, you know what, I don’t think there’s time, after all. The nurses’ll be here any second.
We better get out while we can.”
“Just give me one minute with Cass, old chum. I’m afraid I really must insist. Let me worry about the nurses.” Benjamin took a step toward Max-Ernest. It was clear that if Max-Ernest didn’t leave, Benjamin was prepared to push him out the door.
“No, I don’t think so….”
Max-Ernest started looking around the room for an object—a broom or mop maybe?—with which to protect himself and Cass if necessary.
“Max-Ernest? What is going on here? I need an explanation or I’m going to have to call security right now!”
The boys turned.
The nurse from reception was standing in the doorway with her hands on her hips, the janitor behind her.
The jig, as they say in the crime business, was up.
Three minutes earlier, Max-Ernest would have been bitterly disappointed to see them show up. Now, he was relieved.
“Sorry, wrong room,” said Benjamin quickly. “Looking for my grannie!” He rushed out without looking anybody in the eye.
Max-Ernest was unable to leave so quickly. He had to talk to a hospital administrator first.
Thankfully, the nurse persuaded the hospital not to press charges (as some had wanted), or even to have Max-Ernest committed to the mental ward (as others had suggested). Grief over Cass, she said, was responsible for his crazy behavior.
Nonetheless, Max-Ernest left the hospital totally despondent. Time, he knew, was running out. And he seemed further away from saving Cass than ever. And yet when he got home and saw Yo-Yoji’s e-mail, he was flooded with relief. While Cass’s condition was critical, at least one tragedy—a potentially drastic one—had been averted. As it turned out, Max-Ernest had been right not to trust Benjamin—more right than he possibly could have known:

From: ohnoitsyoyo@xxxxx.com
Subject: DUDE, YOU BETTER READ THIS RIGHT NOW!!!
To: mdash@xxxxxxxxx.com

Jfstnm, Lro, u r lnfmc pjayne darenr tdam am afr cuftar fm bromt ob ky latdrook kfrror… Gust cot laih brok Bugf ame saw yr n- kafj alout Lnmgakfm. Soumene so rameok, tdn way dn idamcne, so F efe a jfttjn makn snarid. Modtfmc… Lut tdnm F joohne up tdat sidooj dn wnmt to, ame cunss wdo’s “dnae ob sidooj” at Mnw Prokntdnam… A cuy makne… eruk rojj, pjnasn… Juifamo Lnrcako. Ud-dud. Er. Brnahfm’ J!!! Ynp, Lnmgakfm’s sidooj was rum ly Kfemfcdt Sum! Eummo wdat ft knams… Spy??? Enbfmftnjy MOT COOE. Ajnrt ajnrt ajnrt! Pjz tnjj kn wdnm u cnt tdfs so F iam rnjax ame co laih to lufjefmc cakn jnvnjs.*  

Lates! Y-Y

\m/ (>.<) \m/ (Rock On!)

CHAPTER NINE
Oh no!
The baby's in the Mayo!
Being the story of a green pea, a baby boy, and a jar of mayonnaise

From time to time, some of my more adoring fans (OK, OK, some of my more suspicious readers) ask me if it is really and truly true that I almost drowned in a jar of mayonnaise when I was a young child. I’m not certain in which of my many, many major media interviews they happened to read this story (OK, OK, it was the interview I conducted with myself at the end of my second book, and who better to conduct it, I ask you) but it is time I settled the question once and for all.
The answer is: yes, I did. Here is how it happened:

The True Origins of My Mayophobia A Personal Digression

As hard as it is to believe now, there was once a time when yours truly, Pseudonymous Bosch, was just a Baby Bosch. An innocent infant who knew nothing of secrets, let alone the Secret. Who had never heard of the Terces Society or the Midnight Sun. Who had not yet even tasted his first bite of chocolate.
This unformed child, this unfinished project, this unbaked loaf, this unsculpted clay, this unwritten novel, this baby was I.
Do not think for a second that I am trying to gain your sympathy, but I was not a happy baby. What with my parents always fighting over me (oh, did I mention the tragedy of my broken home?) and my insides always fighting with themselves (oh, did I mention the curse of my acid stomach?), I spent so much of my babyhood crying inconsolably that fights seemed to break out wherever I went.
No, I am not looking for your sympathy, but a crying baby has no friends. None. You try listening to a baby cry for five minutes or ten minutes or twenty minutes or for months and months on end as I cried. See if you don’t want to throttle the poor little lamb.
Not for the crying baby the clucking and the cooing of Grandma Jo. The sneaking of sweets by Grandpa Carl. The pinching of cheeks by Aunt Martha. At best it’s a pitying glance and a shake of the head. You’re lucky if nobody throws a shoe at you.
No, really, honestly, I am not looking for sympathy. Keep your tissues to yourself. Don’t send me flowers or consolation cards. I have no use for your well-meaning words.
Well, not now, anyway. Back then I suppose it might have been nice if just one person had smiled at me. If a single solitary individual had taken just the slightest bit of interest in that red-faced baby boy with the yellow snot running down his nose and the heat rash on his toes.
You see, had someone taken just a little itty-bitty bit of interest, he or she might have discovered the little green pea, hardened and blackened over time, lodged between the folds of my little baby thigh. It had stuck to my skin somehow and caused a small but persistent pain, an icky-itchy-sticky-scratchy-pushy-pully feeling in my leg that never went away, day or night.
Call me the Princess and the Pea. Make fun of me all you like. But that pea bothered me for nearly a year. It was the reason I was crying. Or the main one. Who knows what would have happened if some kindly person had thought to look into my thigh and remove that pea the day it got stuck there. Who knows what a smiley, bouncy baby I would have become. All the smiling and bouncing that would have been bestowed upon me.
Ah well, then I wouldn’t be the same person now, would I? Our hard-luck knocks define us. Those peas in our thighs, they make us who we are.
But I digress from my digression.
Both my parents worked, and neither had time to take care of me. And yet, due to my incessant crying, they were unable to find me a nanny who would stay more than a week. Some lasted less than an hour. One, memorably, quit after only a minute. By the time my first birthday came around, there were no nannies or babysitters or even semi-responsible ten-year-olds left within a hundred-mile radius who would put up with me.
And so the unthinkable happened: my parents were forced to take me along on my birthday dinner.
They should have known better.
While, as usual, my parents spoke nary a word to each other, my crying grew so loud at the restaurant that the waitress begged my parents to let her take me into the kitchen.
Naturally, I only cried louder once she took me away from my parents. The waitress tried giving me all kinds of sugary, salty, and otherwise unhealthy treats, but nothing would shut me up. Thinking maybe I needed a diaper change, she rather roughly threw me onto the hard, cold, wet, stainless-steel kitchen counter and lifted my tender little baby legs. I wailed and wailed, but lo and behold, she found what no one had found before:
the pea.
By now, however, it had been there so long that it had practically grown into my skin. It looked like some kind of blackish-bluish-brownish-greenish wart—something you were more likely to find on a witch’s cheek than on a baby’s thigh—and it gripped into me so hard the waitress even wondered if it wasn’t a sort of parasite or leech. Unable to remove it with her bare fingers, she searched desperately for a lubricant, preferably industrial-strength.
Can you guess where this is going?
The nearest item within reach: a vat of mayonnaise the size of a smallish garbage can, just large enough, in other words, to hold a baby.
In her defense, she sought only to dunk my lower body. But when my toes hit the cold mayonnaise, I started wriggling like an eel. She simply couldn’t hold me. Once I fell in, there was no way to pull me out with her hands. I was far too slippery.
I waved and waved, I shook this way and that, but I only succeeded in sinking further. I coughed and sputtered, gasping for air but sucking in mayonnaise. It went up my nose and got into my eyes. It filled my ears and got under my nails.
Soon I was entirely submerged in the chilly, slimy, smelly, gelatinous, high-caloric, cholesterol-raising, bacteria-collecting, botulism-inducing, absolutely disgusting, and utterly gross white goo.
In only seconds, I would be no better than a tuna sandwich: drowned in mayonnaise.
Luckily, the sous chef happened to be working on his famous Thousand Island salad dressing at the time, and—thank the gods, or rather, the Green Goddess—he needed an extra cup of mayo. Just as I was about to suffer the humiliating fate of a fish stick, he reached in and gripped me by the neck with his salad tongs.
While I wriggled in the air, crying like a newborn, the sous chef deftly squeezed the pea between his thumb and forefinger and twisted hard. The pea snapped off of my thigh, leaving a red-raw circle about the size of a dime. (Just like twisting the end off a string bean, the chef said.) It hurt, of course, but the relief was immediate.
I stopped crying and stared with fascination at the object that had caused me so much pain and distress. Shrunken to the size of a peppercorn, it sat on the stainless-steel counter, taunting me with its very smallness.
Perhaps because I felt a desire to vanquish my enemy in a dramatic fashion, or more likely just because it was there, I reached for the pea and, before anyone could stop me, I did what babies do: I swallowed it.
That’s when I started crying again. Not because the pea bothered my stomach, but because, free of other distractions, I noticed I was still covered with that slimy white substance I’d nearly drowned in. Sensing my discomfort, the sous chef hastily wiped it off. Then he handed me over to the grateful waitress and went back to work.
Now I don’t want to brag, but everybody complimented him on his salad dressing that evening. It seems I added a certain piquant je ne sais quoi to the flavor—not to mention a certain yellowness to the color—that only a baby can provide.*
Ever since then, I have felt a warm affinity for sous chefs—and a morbid fear of mayonnaise.

CHAPTER -THREE
SURROUNDED!

Cass wasn’t sure she’d heard the Jester correctly. “Really? You don’t know the Secret?”
“I promise, I don’t know the Secret. I have never heard of the Secret,” said the Jester. “You are the invisible girl. You are the time traveler. You are the only secret I know. I should be asking you for the Secret.”
Yes, unfortunately, she’d heard him correctly.
She was crestfallen. Here she’d come so far to ask him the question, and he didn’t know the answer. He seemed barely to understand the question. Her mission was a failure. Beyond that, her role in the Terces Society—her whole purpose in life—would now be in jeopardy. How could she be the Secret Keeper if she had no secret to keep?
She glanced around the woods, as if the Secret might be hidden behind a tree. But she saw nothing more illuminating than a pinecone sitting on a rock.
“But what about the Terces Society?” she persisted. “You’re the founder of the Terces Society. And the whole point of the Terces Society is to protect the Secret. It’s the secret society of the Secret!”
“Sorry, I know nothing of any secret society. If I am the founder, I have not founded it yet.” “Well, what about my parents? Who are they?” asked Cass, increasingly desperate. “At least you must know that. I came all this way to find out who I am. I thought you knew. All I know is I’m supposed to be the Secret Keeper.”
“If you come from the future, how could I know who your parents are? You haven’t been born yet,” said the Jester with indisputable logic. “You make no sense—even a fool like me can see that!”
“You’re serious, you don’t know anything? I don’t understand—”
The Jester shook his head, muttering. “Either you are not here, after all, and I am nothing but a madman talking to the wind. Or you have been sent on purpose to make me go mad. It is the same either way.”
Cass slumped against a tree trunk. “I can’t believe I came all this way for nothing! What am I supposed to do now?” She tried to choke back a sob, but failed.
“Oh, it can’t be so bad as that,” said the Jester. The sound of her crying had shaken him. “Where are you? Give me your hand so I may pat your head.”
Reluctantly, Cass nudged him on the arm.
“Oh, there you are—you can’t keep moving around like that! It’s disorienting. Now, there, there—”
He patted her invisible head as promised. “How is that? I have not much experience comforting little children. Only making them laugh until they get tired and cross. When they start to cry I send them away—’tis bad for business.”
“I’m not a little child, but you’re doing fine,” said Cass, sniffling.
“Here’s an idea,” said the Jester. “Are you sure it is not another jester you are looking for? I hear the King of France has a very funny fellow in his employ.” His face clouded. “And that lucky dog still has a job!”
Cass shook her head. “No, it’s you. We’ve met before. I mean, I think we have. But it was different, you were older, some of the time, anyway….”
“Ah, well, that explains it, then,” said the Jester, brightening. “You’ve simply come back in time too far, that is all. It may be that I will discover the Secret tomorrow, or next year, or not until I am an old man. And this society of yours may not arise for many moons after that. You just have to go home, then come back again—to my future!”
“I’m not sure I can do that,” said Cass sadly. “I don’t even know if I can go home in the first place.”
Home. She wanted to go home now. Desperately. Even if she was going home empty-handed. There was no sense delaying any longer. It would only make the disappointment worse.
But how? How was she supposed to go home?
She was depending on Max-Ernest to bring her back, but shouldn’t he have done it by now? He’d made the antidote before. How hard could it be to make it again? Or had it not really been that long?
How much time had passed in her own world since she’d left? She had no way of knowing whether it had been seconds or minutes or hours or years. In her real life, she could be ninety years old by now, for all she knew. Her friends and family might all be dead. She might not recognize her own home—or even her own self.
Max-Ernest had warned her there might be a problem like that. Why hadn’t she listened?
She, not the Jester, was the true fool.
By the time they heard the barking it was too late.
The regal beagles, roused from their velvet pillows and made for once to work for their roast beef, had sniffed out the bandits’ trail and had led the King’s soldiers directly to the campsite. The bandits had been taken by surprise—the man on watch had been drunk on mead, Cass gathered from Anastasia’s cursing—and they were outnumbered.*  
Now the camp was surrounded, and all the bandits had bayonets at their backs. The regal beagles circled watchfully, as if they were herding sheep.
Only the Jester and Cass, about forty feet from the camp, remained free, unseen by the soldiers and as yet unsniffed by the beagles.
“How proud you must feel, hounds, catching your prize fox!” cried Anastasia. (By hounds, mind you, she referred not to the beagles but to the soldiers.) As scornful as ever, she seemed oblivious to the fact that her throat could be cut at any second. Cass couldn’t help admiring Anastasia’s bravery under pressure. “I see the King needed only to send one hundred of his best men to capture ten thieves! And you call yourselves soldiers?”
“Soldiers, yes, and trained killers each of us. Tell us where the treasure is and we will make your deaths quick and easy,” declared a rather pompous soldier with thick gold braiding on his uniform and beads of sweat on his brow, clearly the Commander. “And if you lead us to that two-foot-tall dung heap they call the homunculus, we may even spare one or two of you. Lord Pharaoh has offered a big reward for his little monster.”
“Come on,” the Jester whispered urgently. “Let’s get out of here before they see us.” He nodded in the direction of the nearest soldier, who was shifting on his feet, perilously close to turning around. “Or smell us—” The Jester nodded toward the beagles, who were sniffing the ground suspiciously, as if they were just then catching the scent of a renegade jester and an invisible girl.
“What do you mean—we can’t just leave them!” Cass sputtered. “Easy for you to say—you’re invisible.”
“But that’s just… wrong.”
“Why? Did not the Bandit Queen command me to leave? I am but following her orders.” “Yeah, but she freed us from the dungeon, remember? And she gave us her horse. We owe her our lives!”
“Lent us the horse, you mean, and very grudgingly, I might add.” “I kind of thought you liked her.”
“Liked her?”
“Yeah, you know, like liked,” said Cass, automatically raising her eyebrows to make the point, even though the Jester couldn’t see them. (Having a conversation when you’re invisible is like talking to a blind person; you have to communicate everything with your voice.)
“Like liked? What does that mean—that I like her twice? But I don’t like her even once—I loathe her thrice!” protested the Jester, but he made no further movement toward leaving. It was clear Cass’s words had had their intended effect.
“OK, you go stall them,” she said, going into the operations mode she had practiced so often with Max-Ernest and the Terces Society. “I’ll try and see if I can untie anybody.”
“And how do you expect me to do that?”
“I don’t know… go juggle or tell jokes or chase your tail or something. You’re a jester, right?”
The Jester opened his mouth to reply but remained silent. He sensed Cass might have already gone, and while it was one thing to be perceived as talking to yourself, it was quite another actually to do it.
He took a breath and then boldly stepped forward. “Soldiers! Salutations!”
The dozen closest soldiers reeled around, drawing their swords. The beagles ran toward him in a pack, yapping madly.
“Who goes there?” shouted the Commander.
“What—? Who—? Nobody!” cried the Jester, jumping to and fro to keep the beagles from sinking their teeth into his ankles. “I mean to say, ’tis I who go there! You see, here… I… go!”
The soldiers laughed.
“Look, men—the King’s jester! More lately the King’s prisoner!” shouted a young soldier. “And now he is the beagles’ dinner!”
“What happened, Jester?” shouted another. “Why did you reject our hospitality? Was the dungeon floor too hard for your liking? The food too cold?”
“Oh the floor was fine, and the food, too,” the Jester offered, moving aside just as a beagle was about to bite into his shoe. “It was the prison guards—their smell offended!”
“You’re a cocky one to joke when you are surrounded by so many men!” snarled the Commander.
“Men? And yet you tie up a lady?” The Jester gestured toward Anastasia, who was shaking her head in disbelief. Evidently, she didn’t think the Jester was helping her cause.
“Do not worry,” replied the Commander. “She will not be tied for long. It is only her head the King wants. We brought this platter special—”
He raised his hand in the air and a younger soldier ran up with a silver platter. “We are instructed to bring back her head sitting on it. Perhaps there is room for yours as well.”
“My head would be honored to be in such noble company. But please do not face her toward me. I fear she will bite off my nose—if these beagles do not get to it first.”
The Jester grinned at Anastasia, who glared back with ferocity. Indeed, it looked as if she might bite the Jester if she could.

CHAPTER TEN
THE MOLE, THE MONOCLE, AND THE MOLE

Hear ye! Hear ye! Attention, all lords and ladies, brave knights and beautiful maidens, the Renaissance Faire is just a month away. After your day of frolic and revelry, come for a royal repast at your local Medieval Days Family Restaurant!”
It was Glob and Daniel-not-Danielle, dressed as not quite medieval, not quite Renaissance, not quite modern-day heralds, in green tights and jester hats. They held plastic trumpets in their hands and wore sandwich boards over their shoulders advertising Medieval Days Family Restaurants:

IT’S NOT JUST FOR DINNER, 
IT’S JOUST FOR DINNER!

Kids walking by on their way into school snickered and jeered. “Nice tights!”
“Are you supposed to be lords or ladies?”
“Laugh all you like, dudes—they’re paying us a hundred bucks each to do this, plus free soda all day!” shouted Glob, holding up a can. “What part of mucho dinero don’t you understand? And what are you getting for wearing your old, smelly jeans? That’s right—the big zero. Nada!”
“Will you stop shouting? You’re just making it worse,” whispered Daniel-not-Danielle, who was busy arranging his dreadlocks so not a centimeter of his face showed to passersby.
“They’re not going to like it when they see what I write on my blog,” grumbled Glob. “I’m going to live-blog Ren-Faire, and none of them will escape my wrath!”
“They don’t care about your blog, man.”
“Do you know how many direct hits I had last week? Like, thousands,” replied Glob, outraged. “Hey, Max-Ernest, you want in? I’ve got another one—” Glob pointed to an extra sandwich board leaning against the wall, a pair of green tights hanging over it.
Max-Ernest shook his head violently and kept walking. “Fine. See if I ever offer you a job again!”
Max-Ernest had returned to school with a sense of dread.
Benjamin had been his only hope for saving Cass. And now he knew that Benjamin was their worst enemy. According to Yo-Yoji, Benjamin had been Dr. L’s student at the New Promethean Academy. And now he was a spy—a mole—for the Midnight Sun in their very own school.
Given the choice, of course, Max-Ernest would have avoided ever seeing Benjamin again— or school, for that matter. But even if he couldn’t get inside Cass’s head, her voice was always in his, telling him not to give up, to remember the Terces Society and the vows they had made to protect the Secret.
Why, Max-Ernest wondered frequently, does she have to be just as bossy in my imagination as she is in real life?
At this very moment, he was having a silent conversation with Cass that went something like this:

C: Don’t let Benjamin out of your sight. If the Midnight Sun went to the trouble of training him and planting him in our school, he won’t give up so easily.

M-E: How am I supposed to tail Benjamin? As soon as I get near him, he can read my mind!

C: Just concentrate on different thoughts. Pretend that you don’t know about him. That you’re still friends.

M-E: But I don’t even know how to be friends. I was never friends with anybody.

C: Oh, you weren’t? M-E: You don’t count. C: Thanks a lot.

M-E: You know what I mean.

C: No, I don’t. And I think Yo-Yoji would be pretty insulted to hear that, too…. All I know is, you better find out Benjamin’s next move before he finds out yours.

M-E: Easy for you to say. You’re just lying there doing nothing.

C: Doing nothing?! You mean in a coma? You want to trade places?

“You should try to keep it down when you talk to yourself, Max-Ernest. You don’t want people thinking you’re crazy, do you? Not that they don’t already…”
Max-Ernest spun around. Opal, the new school secretary, was standing in front of him, hands on her hips, laughing at him. Or at the very least grinning all the way up to the big mole on her cheek.
Max-Ernest hadn’t seen her since she’d set him up, making him walk into the principal’s office without knocking. What was it that looked different about her today?
“Unless you’re auditioning for the part of the jester? You know I could probably get you onstage at the Renaissance Faire.”
Max-Ernest felt himself blush. “Very funny.”
How much had she heard? He hoped desperately that he hadn’t said anything aloud about the Terces Society or the Secret.
“Oops—what’s that I hear?”
The bell was ringing. The second bell. The one that meant first period was starting.
Opal looked at her watch in that exaggerated way people sometimes do. “Tsk-tsk. Looks like you’re going to be a little late. I hope you have a note from home.” “Um… not really.”
“Well, you better come to the office after next period. We’ll see what the principal, that is, Her Majesty, has to say about this.”
Max-Ernest stared. It was so unfair. Had the secretary not stopped to talk to him, he might very well have made it to class in time.
He was about to protest when his attention was diverted by an unexpected sight: Benjamin Blake talking to Amber.
Just the two of them. Alone.
They were standing between the administration building and the cafeteria. The space was very narrow and usually only populated by ants and the occasional rodent. Obviously, they had chosen it for the privacy. Only good luck had made Max-Ernest glance in their direction at the right time, and he was determined to take full advantage.
He had to get rid of the secretary quickly. That much was clear. But how was he going to spy on his schoolmates without being seen himself?
“OK, I’ll come by after class,” he said, edging out of their sight line.
“Good. I’ll see you then,” said Opal, studying him. She seemed to have noticed his change in attitude.
“Yeah, see you.” He started turning, as if he were going to head for class, when she stopped him.
“Oh, Max-Ernest, I’m sorry, can you do me a favor? I just did my nails and they take forever to dry. Would you just reach into my bag and get a tissue out for me?” She opened her large black patent-leather purse for him, her fingers spread wide so that her newly applied fingernail polish wouldn’t smear on anything.
Impatient, Max-Ernest felt around for the tissues.
“It’s right there under my compact—that’s that little mirror there,” said the secretary helpfully.
The mirror in question was hinged and would, Max-Ernest recognized immediately, make a perfect spy tool.
He closed his right hand around the mirror while at the same time picking up the package of tissues with his left. (Every once in a while, when he was doing a magic trick or was engaged in a spy operation, the experience of having to do two things simultaneously for his parents so many times came in handy.) With any luck, the secretary wouldn’t notice the compact was gone. And he could slip it back into her purse when he went to the office later.
It’s just borrowing, he heard Cass’s voice conveniently reassuring him. Not stealing. Besides, this was the woman who pulled a prank on him for no reason the day they first met!
The secretary smirked, delicately pulling a tissue from the package without letting her nails touch anything. “Thank you, Max-Ernest. And tie your shoelace, please!”
Max-Ernest nodded in acknowledgment, then headed in the direction of his class, not bothering to fix his shoelace. When he was satisfied that the secretary would be safely behind her desk, he reversed course and crept back toward the administration building.
Sidling up to the building and keeping as much of himself hidden as possible, he held out the compact and moved the mirror around until he could see Benjamin and Amber. They were still deep in conversation.
The last time he’d seen them together had been when Amber had told Max-Ernest’s fortune.
It hadn’t seemed then that they’d remembered each other. But looking at them now, Max-Ernest had the sense that they knew each other very well after all.
There was just enough of an echo reverberating between the stucco walls for Max-Ernest to hear their whispering:
“You were trying to look into her mind, right?” Amber was asking. “Why? What did they want you to find?”
Benjamin shrugged. “It doesn’t matter because I didn’t find it.” “Come on—they never tell me anything,” complained Amber. “Well, then, why would you think I could tell you?”
“Please.”
“Why do you want to know so badly?” “’Cause I hate not knowing a secret.” “Then you’re very close.”
“What does that mean?”
“Oh, nothing,” said Benjamin smugly.
“Ugh—I hate you!” cried Amber. “After that whole fortune-telling thing nobody likes me anymore—I totally ruined my reputation for this. I should at least get to look into the monocle!”
Amber reached for the monocle, but Benjamin turned away, preventing her from taking it. “I’m not allowed.”
“So what? Like Dr. L is ever gonna know.”
“Something tells me he’ll know. Especially when he gets the monocle back.” “Please please.”
“Why do you want to see it so badly?”
“So I can see what’s in your mind and know what you were looking for in Cass’s. Why do you think?”
The monocle, all along it was the monocle! Max-Ernest thought excitedly. He had assumed Benjamin’s telepathic power was internal, that it was Benjamin’s own unique talent at work, that Benjamin alone could see into Cass’s mind. But if his power resided in the monocle, then anybody could be a mind reader—anybody who got hold of the monocle, that is.
Even him.*
While Max-Ernest was speculating about how to get the monocle out of Benjamin’s hands, Amber lunged for it. In less than a second, she was holding it up to her eye.
Resigned, Benjamin folded his arms and looked at her. “Well, what do you see?”
“Nothing. It’s just like looking through plain glass. If you were just tricking me, I’ll be so mad…. No, wait. I see… I see… everybody. Everybody in school! Teachers. Students. Everybody. How cool is that? It’s like I can see through walls…. Wow, with this thing I could control the whole school—I mean, not that I don’t already….”
Suddenly Amber’s grin turned into a frown. “Why is Veronica talking to Naomi? I didn’t say she could. I hate Naomi, not that I’m a hater, I’m not…. Wait, never mind about Veronica….” Amber pointed in Max-Ernest’s direction. “I think there’s somebody behind that corner spying on us,” she said, lowering her voice, but still audible to Max-Ernest.
“Who?”
“I can’t see his face—” “Give me the monocle back.”
“No, never—” “You have to!”
They wrestled, Benjamin straining to keep the monocle away from Amber, until it fell to the ground, skidding in Max-Ernest’s direction.
Without thought to the consequences, he seized his chance and scrambled to get it. Benjamin and Amber stopped fighting when they saw him.
“Max-Ernest, old chum! Thank goodness it’s you. Somebody I can reason with,” said Benjamin calmly. “That monocle is very valuable to me. For purely sentimental reasons, you understand. It wouldn’t mean anything to anybody else. I appreciate your picking it up for me. Very kind of you.”
“Um, you’re welcome…?” said Max-Ernest, clutching tight to the monocle.
“Wonderful. You can give it back to me now,” said Benjamin in the tone one uses with a little child.
Max-Ernest took a step backward. “No, I think I’ll keep it for the moment because… because…” He stammered, unable to think of a reason that wouldn’t give away what he knew about Benjamin and about the monocle.
“Forget him, Max-Ernest,” said Amber in her sweetest, most insinuating voice. “Give it to me and I’ll be your friend for real.”
“When are you going to get it through your head that I don’t want to be your friend?” asked Max-Ernest.
He wanted to run, but he hesitated. If he ran toward the exit, there was a very good chance Opal, the secretary, would see him through the office window.
“Just give it to me; it’s mine,” said Benjamin. “This isn’t the time for games.” “Sorry—”
Both Benjamin and Amber reached for the monocle at the same time. Trying to evade them, Max-Ernest stepped on his shoelace. He fell backward and wound up sitting on the ground, still holding the monocle tight.
“I’ll take that,” said Opal, stepping up to them. Apparently she hadn’t gone back to the office after all. Before Max-Ernest could think to resist, she took the monocle out of his hand and stowed it away in her big shiny purse.
“The principal will deal with you two later!” said Opal, addressing Benjamin and Amber.
She offered Max-Ernest her hand and pulled him up with surprising strength. “You are going to the nurse’s office right now. That’s going to be a nasty bruise on your elbow.”
The nurse’s office was empty. The blinds were closed and the computer screen was dark. It looked as though nobody had been in there all day.
“You sit here,” said Opal, patting the pillow on the single cot in the room. Max-Ernest noticed her fingernails grazed the sheets without smearing. Funny, he thought, she said they took “forever” to dry….
It was then that he realized what looked different about her today: her mole. He could have sworn that when they first met it was on her right cheek—the right side of her face being the side you saw when you walked into the administration office—and yet now the mole was on her left cheek.
“I’m going to see if I can’t scare up that nurse. I must say, I didn’t take you for the wrestling type.”
Casually dropping her purse on the nurse’s desk, Opal gave a shake to her mass of blond curls and walked out of the room on her vertiginously high platform heels.
Not quite believing his luck, Max-Ernest waited until the secretary closed the door, then, as quickly as he could, he opened her purse. He removed the monocle and left her compact in its place.
As soon as he sat back down on the cot, Opal breezed back into the room. “Silly me. I forgot—Nursie is out for the day. Sick—wouldn’t you know it? Guess you’ll just have to muscle through.”
“Um, shouldn’t I at least put ice on my elbow or something?” asked Max-Ernest. Ever since the secretary had mentioned the likelihood of his elbow bruising, he’d been imagining the worst. “I think I could have a fracture. Or maybe a sprain. You know, they say a bad sprain is worse than a break—”
Opal waved her hand dismissively. “Oh, you’ll be fine,” she said, seeming to forget she was the one who’d brought him into the nurse’s office in the first place. “Can you not be such a hypochondriac for once, Max-Ernest?”
As Opal shooed him out, Max-Ernest tried to follow her suggestion; he had more important things to think about than his elbow, after all. Hopefully now that he had the monocle in his possession, he would be able to see what Benjamin had almost seen: into Cass’s mind. And, hopefully, he would be able to bring her back home.
And yet, even as he was opening his locker, gathering his things to take to the hospital, he couldn’t help wondering: who told the secretary about his hypochondria? It was most definitely odd: a woman he barely knew knowing him so well.
Almost as odd as a mole moving from her right cheek to her left.
Was it possible that the Midnight Sun had another spy—another mole—in his school? She certainly seemed more than capable of putting a KICK ME sign on his back.

CHAPTER -TWO
An Old Legend in Reverse

Cass did not have much of a plan yet; she was hoping inspiration would strike.
She figured if she could make the soldiers turn around, she could slip behind them and untie the bandits, but that was as far as she’d gotten in her thinking. Unfortunately, she couldn’t find a stick long enough to poke a soldier at a safe distance. All the available wood in the area had been burned in the campfire. She looked for low-hanging branches she might break off, but these, too, were missing.
“Are you sure you want to make these people your prisoners?” she heard the Jester asking the soldiers. “Will you not then be as bad as bandits yourselves? No, you will be worse! ’Tis true they steal from the rich. But do not the rich first steal from the poor?”
For some reason, Cass didn’t have much faith that the Jester’s logic would convince the soldiers. Or even that if his logic convinced them, they would necessarily follow his suggestions. A more practical solution was required.
“How much gold have you? Or you? Or you?” the Jester continued. “Has not the King taken from your parents what should be theirs and yours? It is he who is the master thief. The royal band on his head does not make him any less a royal bandit…. Aye, that’s it, be gone, beasts! Thank you for allowing me to keep my feet!”
The regal beagles, it seemed, had decided to release the Jester from canine captivity. However, from the sound of their barking/bow-wowing/yapping, Cass feared that the reason they were moving on was that they’d picked up another scent—hers.
Sure enough, the yapping got louder and louder, and within less than a minute Cass saw the dogs heading toward her. The soldiers, she knew, would be close behind.
She had the advantage of invisibility, but that went only so far with creatures whose olfactory organs were forty times more sensitive than a human’s.
Thinking quickly, she pulled off her sweatshirt and threw it to her left in the direction of a boulder. Meanwhile, she stepped quietly in the opposite direction.
The ruse worked. The beagles piled onto her sweatshirt, pawing furiously at the mysterious garment, looking for Cass. When she didn’t appear, they growled in frustration and ran circles around the boulder.
Afraid to break into a run, lest she attract their attention, Cass edged slowly away from the dogs. She was on the verge of escape when the dogs suddenly lost interest in the boulder and started sniffing around again.
Quickly, she unbuckled her belt and tossed it under a bush.
Again, the beagles dove after their quarry, scrambling to get her belt. Again, they were frustrated to find Cass gone, the belt no longer attached to her waist. Again, they sniffed.
Cass, meanwhile, wet her finger to see which way the wind was blowing. Stealthily, she crept in the upwind direction, hoping that way would hide her scent. Alas, she miscalculated; beagles follow not airborne but ground-borne scents, and they started running toward her anyway.
Increasingly nervous, Cass bent down to untie her shoes.
The game continued—although to Cass, obviously, it wasn’t a game—Cass tossing her left shoe to the right and her right shoe to the left, then her right sock to the left and her left sock to the right, until she was standing barefoot and shivering behind a tree.
What to do next? She’d succeeded in confusing the dogs enough that they were now fighting over her socks about thirty feet away from her. But they would be diverted for only so long. And the soldiers, no doubt, would be fast behind.
Cass hesitated. She might be invisible, but she certainly didn’t relish the idea of undressing any further.
“Heh heh heh.”
A peculiar snorting, wheezing, laughing sound startled her. Like a pig imitating a hyena. Or maybe vice versa.
“Heh heh heh.”
Cass reeled around to find the homunculus watching her from on top of a rock. “Mr. Cabbage Face!” she whispered, excited.
“Why do you keep calling me that? My master’s housekeeper sometimes called me her ‘little cabbage face,’ but I thought it was because she was always giving me her leftover cabbage….”
“No, it’s because—there’s no time to explain. How long have you been here?” The homunculus shrugged his little shoulders. “Awhile.”
“Why didn’t you say anything?”
“Too fun to watch you hopping around,” said the homunculus, smirking.
Cass noticed that his speaking had improved remarkably now that he was no longer the one being teased but was rather the one doing the teasing.
“Funny. What are you doing here?”
“Right now? Looking for food. But those cheap bandits don’t have any meat. Only this rotting potato—” He held up a moldy potato. A worm peeked out the side.
“Gross,” said Cass, stepping away.
“They eat like peasants,” said the homunculus, throwing the potato to the ground in disgust.
The worm he kept—and popped into his mouth. “Mm, not bad…”
“I think that’s so they can afford to feed the real peasants,” said Cass, trying to ignore the end of the worm wiggling between his lips.
“I came here to warn you. Lord Pharaoh is looking for you.” “Why?”
The homunculus furrowed his brow. “Something about a secret that will make him live forever. You are the only person who can show it to him, or the only person who can keep him from it. One or the other, I forget. He saw it all through that eyeglass of yours.”
“You mean he knows about the Secret?” Cass asked excitedly. Although the warning about Lord Pharaoh was ominous, it was also the first clue to uncovering the Secret she’d encountered since entering the Jester’s world.
“I don’t know about any secrets. All I know is he is a very scary man. If he finds you, I offer you this advice. His weakness is vanity. Show him a mirror and you will gain a minute.”
“A mirror? Uh-oh—!”
Whether it was owing to Cass or the potato or Cabbage Face himself, the dogs were back on Cass’s trail, yapping wildly.
“Oh, don’t worry about those blasted beagles,” said the homunculus dismissively. “I can get rid of them.”
Cass looked at him suspiciously. “You’re not planning on eating them, are you?”
The homunculus grinned. “Now there’s an idea….” “Mr. Cabbage Face!”
“Actually, beagles taste terrible. Very gamey. Come here, I want to show you something before I go.”
“There’s no time!” “Look—”
The homunculus hopped off the rock and onto a bed of leaves and pine needles. Brushing them aside, he revealed a large burlap tarp. He lifted a corner—and a silver candlestick poked out. Then he pulled the tarp off altogether. Underneath was the wooden chest the bandits had stolen from the procession. Cass recognized the big brass lock. Half open and filled to the brim with coins and jewels, the chest was a veritable treasure trove. It glistened, glittered, and gleamed, beckoning as only treasure can.
“For you…” He hesitated, not being very experienced with gift-giving. “Nobody ever did anything nice for me before.”
“Wow. Thanks. But all this treasure isn’t really yours to give, Mr. Cabbage Face,” Cass scolded. “Besides, my job now is to free those bandits. And if I offer this stuff to the soldiers, they’ll just take it—they won’t free anybody.”
The homunculus didn’t have time to respond. The beagles were fast descending on them. “Quick—hide under the tarp,” he whispered. “I’ll get them out of here.”
“But you can’t run fast enough. They’ll catch you.” “Who said anything about running?”
As Cass dove onto the pile of treasure, the homunculus threw the tarp over her. After recovering the tarp with leaves, he headed toward the dogs and let out a shrill whistle. “Beagles, you greedy dogs—you’re no better than hogs! Catch me if you can!”
The homunculus made a gesture with his hand that Cass, watching through a hole in the tarp, didn’t recognize but assumed was very rude. Then he scrambled up the nearest tree.
Barking angrily, the dogs pawed and scratched the base of the tree trunk until the homunculus climbed out onto a long branch and dropped over the edge, catching the branch with one hand.
“Watch this!” he shouted. And then he…
Swung himself through the air, catching onto the next tree like a monkey. “Ha ha—” As he swung from one tree to the next, the furious beagles gave chase.
When a group of soldiers appeared over a rise, Cass briefly panicked. But then they, too, started running after the homunculus. She was alone once more.
“Bye, bye, Mr. Cabbage Face,” she said softly. She doubted she would ever see him again— whether in the past or the future or some other time zone as yet unknown.
Cass waited about five minutes before peeling the tarp off her head and examining the bandits’ hoard.
Never one to be overly interested in jewels, she couldn’t help but be impressed and wonder what would happen if she were to take a piece or two back with her to her own time. Everything here must be worth a fortune, she thought. Then again, she didn’t know how to get herself back to her own time, let alone how to bring a tiara along for the ride. Oh well, even if she were the tiara type, which she most decidedly wasn’t (she’d never gone through that princess phase that so many girls go through), she had a feeling her pointy ears would prevent her from wearing any tiaras anyway.
Just as she was about to tear herself away from the glittering mound, she noticed the black rock on which had gathered so many coins and rings and even the blade of a sword. The lodestone, she guessed. The same rock she’d seen during the bandits’ raid on the Duke’s procession. Although without the Double Monocle it looked leaden and had no bluish glow.
The sword, she thought, was a bit fancy for cutting ropes—it had a bejeweled gold handle and elaborate engravings on both sides of the blade—but it would be serviceable, nonetheless. It took all her strength to pull the sword from the stone. Just like King Arthur, she thought, holding the sword aloft.
She laughed at herself and started lowering the sword, then stopped with it still in midair. An idea had struck her. A crazy, far-fetched idea. An idea that had little chance of success.
But it had one thing going for it: it was the only idea she had. How to communicate it to the Jester—that was the question.
Using the blade of the sword, she pried as many bits of metal off the lodestone as she could.
Then she started retracing her steps back to the campsite.
When she got close, she proceeded more cautiously. Careful not to break any twigs or send any rocks tumbling into the campsite, she hid the sword behind a tree. The lodestone she continued to hold in her hand like the precious object it was.
By now, the Jester’s feet were bound together to prevent him from running, but remarkably his hands and his mouth had been left alone. It seemed the soldiers enjoyed his stories; they were demanding that he tell another.
“But I know no more,” protested the Jester. “You have heard them all!”
“Then we shall gag you like the others,” threatened the Commander, ripping a long strip off a piece of fabric in preparation.
“Wait! Wait! I will think of something! Let me see, have I told you the one about the sea serpent and the maiden?”
“Yes!” shouted the sailors in chorus.
Nobody saw the lodestone rolling on the ground, seemingly of its own volition—or they didn’t believe their eyes if they did—and Cass, kicking the rock along like a soccer ball, was able to reach the Jester without difficulty.
When she tapped him on the shoulder, however, he jumped—and everybody noticed.
“You are a squeamish fellow, aren’t you?” teased the Commander. “Are there ants in your pants? Or did a mouse follow you from the dungeon?”
“How did you know? A most annoying mouse, indeed!” said the Jester through gritted teeth. He was trying valiantly not to squirm despite the fact that Cass was pressing the lodestone into his back, where it wouldn’t be visible to the soldiers.
She waited a moment, then whispered her instructions.
When she’d finished, the Jester bowed formally to the Commander. “Sir, I have thought of another story after all. And it is a most important one befitting this glorious occasion. Indeed, it may change your mind about the very situation in which we find ourselves. You may even find yourself moved to free us all.”
“I seriously doubt that,” said the Commander.
“Wait and see…. There is a legend I am sure you know about a sword in a stone. He who pulls the sword from the stone is the One True King…?”
“We have all heard this legend, yes. What is your point?”
“My point? Ah, like the point of a sword! You are a punning soldier as well as a cunning one!”
“A pun? Oh yes! You see you are not the only one who is clever with his tongue,” said the Commander, puffing himself up. It was obvious that he had not intended the pun, but because he was the Commander, nobody argued with him.
“My point is that there is more to the legend than you might think—a second point to the sword, so to speak,” said the Jester. “If the sword is called back to the stone, then he who calls himself King is not the true King, but a false one. We owe him no allegiance.”
“What has this to do with us? I see no sword here, nor any stone.”
The Jester reached behind his back and presented the black-and-gold lodestone with a dramatic flourish. “Here is the fabled stone to which I allude,” he said, lowering it to the ground. “If, when I raise my arm, a sword flies through the air and sticks to the stone, will you renounce your false King and let these bandits go?”
The Commander laughed. “Very well. There is little risk of that. But know that your head will join with Anastasia’s on the platter if no flying sword appears.”
“Consider me warned.” The Jester looked up at the sky, closed his eyes, and solemnly pronounced, “Excalibur, Sword of Swords, if the King be a false one, fly to this rock now!”
The Commander tapped his toes impatiently until one of the soldiers pointed—
The bejeweled sword had emerged from behind a tree and was sailing through the air. Everybody, the gagged bandits included, watched in astonishment as the sword slowed briefly, hovering like a falcon searching for its prey. Then, flashing in the sunlight, it lurched forward and flew straight toward the Jester as if answering his silent call. The lodestone sparkled at his feet.
When the sword reached the stone, it paused in midair, then dove point-first. It landed in the middle of the stone and stood straight, perfectly balanced, seemingly weightless. A miraculous sight.
A surprised murmur rippled through the crowd. Even the bandits opened their eyes wide, seeming to forget for a moment their captive condition.
One by one, the soldiers dropped to the ground, kneeling before the sword as if the sword itself were king. Eventually, only the Commander was left standing. Then he, too, was overcome.
“The Sword knows all,” he said to the Jester, eyes glistening. “I renounce the King. You are all free.”
“Oh now, now,” said the Jester, grinning with delight. “There is no need for such drama. It is I who am supposed to put on the show here!”
He looked over at Anastasia and winked.
Cass, now standing beside the Jester, thought she saw Anastasia offer a reluctant smile in return.
“I’m going to get out of the way,” Cass whispered in the Jester’s ear. “After the soldiers are gone, come find me over there where we slept. I have to tell you something. It’s really important.”
As she walked away, she tried to ignore the tired, faint-headed feeling that had been slowly overtaking her all morning.

CHAPTER ELEVEN
the man in the mirror

Joe, the janitor, was just starting his one afternoon shift of the week when the short spiky-haired boy flew past him and ran into that poor girl’s room.
Or what had been that poor girl’s room. He found the boy staring at the empty bed.
“Where is she? What happened?” asked the boy in a whisper. You didn’t have to be psychic to tell what he was thinking.
“Don’t worry; it’s not quite as bad as that,” said the janitor. “They took her home is all.” A spark of hope lit up the boy’s eyes. “So did she wake up, then?”
“No, not that, either, I’m afraid. The doctor thought it was time for her to be in her own bed.
Nothing they can do for her here anymore.”
“You mean they’re just giving up?” the boy asked indignantly. “Well, they don’t put it like that….”
The boy slumped against the hospital bed, color draining from his face. “You need a second?”
The boy nodded. Tears in his eyes, he put his hand on the sheet on which the girl had so recently been lying.
“Don’t be too long, son. I’ve got to mop the floor in there and get the room ready for the next customer.”
The janitor hesitated, trying to think of something more reassuring to say. Then he gave up and left the boy alone.
When, several minutes later, Max-Ernest made himself stand up, he noticed that the monocle had rolled out of his jacket pocket onto the bed.
Too late, he thought bitterly. I got the monocle too late.
He picked up the monocle and found that he wanted nothing more than to throw it at the mirror that hung above the sink. A year ago, he remembered, he’d had to force himself to throw things—a magic wand, most notably—in an attempt to express his anger. Now he had to restrain himself from shattering a hospital mirror into a thousand pieces. Perhaps this was progress of a sort.
Rather than throwing the monocle, however, he peered into it, doing a brief survey of the room.
When he came back to the mirror, he stopped cold.
There was a man in the mirror. An old or not-so-old man (it was hard to tell). He had messy hair that stuck out in all directions and a scruffy beard the mixed black-and-white color people describe as salt-and-pepper. He looked slightly insane.
Nervous, Max-Ernest lowered the monocle and turned around, but there was nobody in the room with him.
He looked into the monocle again. The man in the mirror was still there. As clear as day. But as mysterious as the man in the moon.
Was it a ghost? Max-Ernest couldn’t help asking the question. All his skepticism about the supernatural, all his logic and reason, seemed to disappear in the face of this apparition.
Whatever it was, was looking in Max-Ernest’s direction but seemed not to see him. His brow was furrowed and he looked frustrated, conflicted. He was muttering something to himself.
“Are you trying to tell me something?” Max-Ernest whispered, stepping closer. “Do you have a message from Cass?”
The man didn’t respond, just kept muttering.
The mirror looked foggy around the edges, but when Max-Ernest wiped it with his hand, the image didn’t change. The fog was behind the mirror.
I must be going crazy, Max-Ernest thought. This is all in my head. It must be.
He peered closer and saw that the man was hunched over a desk. Papers spilled out in front of him, covered with an almost-unreadable scrawl.
Max-Ernest had the odd sensation that he knew the man—something about the man’s nose reminded Max-Ernest of his father—and yet Max-Ernest was certain he’d never seen him before.
Could this be one of his ancestors? A great-grandfather, perhaps? Meanwhile, the man kept muttering. Something was troubling him.
Straining, Max-Ernest could barely make out the words: “Just… one… more… Just… one… more…,” the man repeated over and over.
What? Just one more what?
The man’s hand inched toward a shiny object lying on his desk. A pair of spectacles? A knife? A bar of gold? What all-important moment in history was Max-Ernest witnessing through the monocle?
“Just… one… more… Just… one… more…”
The man picked up the object—it was indeed a bar of gold, more specifically a bar covered in gold foil—and greedily unwrapped it. He gazed at the bar as if it were a long-lost friend. Then, unable to resist a second longer—
“Hmmgh….”
Oh, thought Max-Ernest. Just one more bite.
Chocolate. A man eating chocolate. That was the momentous event Max-Ernest was watching in the mirror. He would have laughed had he been in a better mood—and had he not taken the subject of chocolate so very seriously himself.
The man put the bar down and smiled contentedly, momentarily at peace. Until— “Well, maybe just one more…”
—he picked up the bar again. “Hmmgh…”
What’s that noise he’s making? Max-Ernest wondered. “Hmmgh… Hmmmgh…”
The noise was very peculiar: part hum, part groan. Max-Ernest found it irritating and yet at the same time irritatingly familiar. It was like an itch he couldn’t locate. Like a word that he couldn’t remember but that was on the tip of his tongue.
Suddenly, as if somebody had tapped him on the shoulder, the man turned and looked directly at Max-Ernest.
“You know, it wouldn’t hurt to try talking once,” he said. “You mean… to Cass?” Max-Ernest stammered.
But the man didn’t respond. He just picked up a pen and started writing.
Then the image fogged over entirely. When the fog cleared, the man in the mirror was gone.
In his place, Max-Ernest saw only himself.
Frustrated and a little bit frightened, Max-Ernest lowered the monocle and walked out into the hallway.
Instinctively, he headed for the vending machine. There was only one chocolate bar left, and for a second he considered leaving it for later. Then he remembered there would be no later; he had no reason to return to the hospital.
“Hmmgh…”
As he bit into the chocolate bar, Max-Ernest had a startling realization: the reason he recognized the noise the man had been making was that it was the very noise that he, Max- Ernest, made whenever he ate chocolate.
It wasn’t a ghost that he’d been looking at in the mirror. It wasn’t an ancestor. It wasn’t anybody from the past. The man in the mirror was his future self.

CHAPTER -ONE
PORTRAIT OF AN INVISIBLE GIRL

The Jester didn’t find Cass until he almost tripped over her. She was lying on a bed of pine needles, half awake.
“Oh, there you are!”
The Jester hovered above her, his orange curls blocking the sun. “Are you all right? I’ve been looking all over.”
Cass forced herself to sit up. “I’m fine. I just had to lie down for a second.”
“It has been more like twenty minutes…. Here, drink.” He offered a cup of water, which she sipped gratefully.
“I’m very glad I found you. You never know how useful an invisible friend is going to be until you’ve had one. I don’t think I could possibly survive without one now!” The Jester patted Cass’s head. “Braids, am I right?”
“You are very solicitous of this invisible friend of yours.” Cass and the Jester both looked up, startled.
Anastasia smiled mischievously. “I suppose you can’t be too careful with invisible creatures.
Without proper care, they’re liable to vanish altogether.”
“Invisible creatures?” the Jester sputtered. “What invisible creatures?”
He stood up and took a step away from Cass, studiously avoiding looking in her direction. “My question exactly. I would simply have dismissed you as crazy had I not seen that sword fly through the air a little while ago.”
“You did not believe the legend, then?” queried the Jester, recovering. “I know nothing of legends. I know what I see.”
“Very well. I’ll admit, I invented the legend. But did you not know that I myself am virtually a legend?—a legendary magician, that is. A master illusionist who can make inanimate objects appear to fly.”
“What you are is a man who talks to invisible creatures and pats their heads.”
“Oh, all right, I confess. I talk to my hand. See—hello, Sir Hand.” He held up his left hand and spoke to it in demonstration. “It’s a habit I formed when I was a boy. And now if I don’t talk to him, my hand refuses to obey. He won’t juggle or perform tricks of any kind. Watch—he just sits there….”
He was silent a moment, his hand still.
“Now, if I coax him a little… Oh, go on, Sir Hand. Do a trick for Anastasia. Just a little one
—”
His hand quivered in the air for a moment, as if trying to decide what to do. Then in one long, fluid motion, it picked a flower off a shrub, made the flower disappear and reappear again, and finally presented the flower to Anastasia.
Anastasia laughed. “Good try, but I will not be diverted by flowers.” She tossed the flower over her shoulder. “Earlier you were speaking to your right side, not to your left hand.”
“It’s OK,” said Cass loudly. “You can tell her. You’re not fooling her, anyway.”
“So the creature exists!” exclaimed Anastasia, spinning around. “It’s one thing to imagine, another to hear….”
“Yes, I exist.”
“And you are a young girl, if I’m not mistaken?” Cass bristled, standing. “Not that young—”
“Of course not—I did not mean to offend. It’s just that I imagined some sort of invisible beast. But I am delighted to find that my savior is human instead. Or are you a fairy or some other? Truth to tell, I did not believe in fairies an hour ago, but I did not believe in invisible girls, either.”
“Oh, I’m human… er, I think. At least back home I am.” Not that I’ll ever get there again, she thought.
“I am very glad to hear it,” said Anastasia. “Where are you? I should like to shake the hand of the person who saved my life and the lives of my men.”
“You didn’t shake my hand,” grumbled the Jester. “Didn’t I save you, too?”
Embarrassed but pleased, Cass reached out to shake Anastasia’s hand. “Here. I’m Cass. Well, Cassandra is my full name. Nice to meet you—”
Anastasia grasped Cass’s invisible hand between her two larger ones. “Ah, long fingers. Like mine. Good for handling horses and weapons…”
“And she has ears like mine!” the Jester interjected. “Good for… good for… Must they be good for something?”
“I hear pretty well sometimes,” Cass offered. “But I don’t think it’s ’cause my ears are big and pointy. I think it’s ’cause I have strong inner ears or something like that.”
“Good hearing does run in the family,” boasted the Jester.
For the second time, Anastasia looked astonished. “You and the invisible girl are family?” “Why are you surprised?” asked the Jester. “To you I am practically invisible myself.” “That hardly explains it.”
“Cassandra is my great-great—oh wait. Should I not say…?”
“Oh, I think it’s OK to tell her,” said Cass. “I mean, just a little bit.”
As it turned out, Cass told the story herself, and at great length, filling in details that she had not yet mentioned even to the Jester. Naturally, Cass worried that she was betraying her vows of secrecy by revealing so much about the Secret and about the Terces Society, but she figured telling people in the past wasn’t the same as telling people in the present. Besides, the Jester was the founder of the Terces Society, or would be. If anybody should be allowed to hear mention of the Secret, it was he. As for Anastasia, Cass felt a kinship with her she couldn’t quite explain.
“I wish I could see what you look like, Cassandra,” said Anastasia. “You are a brave girl to undertake a journey across time.”
“Uh… thanks. But I just look normal, really. Except for the big ears, like the Jester said.” “Here—” The Jester presented Cass with a scroll.
“What’s this?” asked Cass, unrolling the scroll to reveal a piece of blank parchment.
“I was going to write my letter of resignation to the King on it, but I never got the chance.
You may have it.” “Uh, what for?”
“To draw yourself, of course. This clay should work perfectly.” He handed her a lump of red clay from the ground.
“Yes, please draw, Cassandra,” said Anastasia.
“I don’t know. I’m really bad at drawing. I don’t think I could make it look like me.” “Well, if it doesn’t, we’ll never know, will we?” the Jester pointed out.
Under pressure, Cass sketched for a few minutes. When she finished, she was distinctly unhappy with the product. Between the stiff braids and exaggeratedly pointy ears, her drawing had the cartoonish quality of something a cruel classmate might have scribbled in a notebook and pasted on Cass’s locker. But the adults seemed to like it. At the very least, they were fascinated by the sight of a drawing that appeared to draw itself.
“Ah, I see you do have the Jester’s ears—but, trust me, they are far more charming on you,” said Anastasia with a sideways glance at the Jester. “May I keep the drawing?”
“Sure. I mean, if you really want to,” said Cass shyly. “Hey, did you guys hear that?” “What?”
“That voice.”
“The soldiers must be coming back,” said Anastasia. “I expected this. Now that they are away, they are questioning what they saw. And they are worrying what will happen to them if they fail to bring my head to the King. We must go. My men are waiting.”
The Jester smiled. There was no more talk of his being exiled from the group.
“No, don’t worry, it’s not a soldier, it’s—” Cass stopped herself before she said Max- Ernest’s name. Most likely they wouldn’t recognize it, and if they remembered her mentioning her future-residing friend, they would think she was losing her mind. And perhaps she was.
But Anastasia had already strode away and was starting to saddle her horse. “You can go—I’ll catch up,” said Cass to the Jester, feeling faint again.
She leaned against a rock and found herself nodding off. In the distance, she kept hearing Max-Ernest saying her name. Or was she just imagining it?
“Cass, where did you go?” The Jester patted the air, trying to find her. “I shall not leave without you.”
Max-Ernest would be so disappointed when she came back without the Secret, she thought. If she came back.
Cass struggled to keep her eyes open. “I’m right here, but I don’t know for how long. I know this sounds weird, but I think someone is calling me away. Or maybe I’m just fading out of this world.”
“Nonsense. You look as good as ever—your skin is so clear you are without a blemish.” “Ha ha.” Cass tried to laugh but couldn’t quite manage it.
The Jester turned serious. “What was it you wanted to tell me earlier? You said it was important.”
“Oh, oh! It was about Lord Pharaoh. And it is important. Really important.” Cass sat up straight, summoning all her energy. “He knows about the Secret.”
“Your secret?”
“Well, it’s not mine yet. That’s why, after I’m gone, you have to go after him for me.” “Lord Pharaoh? That awful alchemist? Why would I want to go near him?”
“To find the Secret yourself, of course. And to keep him from learning it. Or from using it if he already knows it. So you can start the Terces Society like you’re supposed to.”
The Jester looked distressed. “I don’t know. Lord Pharaoh is a very powerful man. I’m just a jester, and not even a proper jester anymore….”
“Well, I’m sure Anastasia will help. Anyway, you don’t have a choice. History depends on it.
Otherwise, the Midnight Sun will have the Secret instead of you.”
“You are very bossy for an invisible girl, do you know that?” “Promise me.”
“Very well, I promise.”
“And then when you find the Secret, you have to leave it for me.”
“How do you leave a secret? Do you assume that it has physical properties?”
“You know what I mean. A clue. A message. Just write something and leave it for me so I can find it… in the future.”
“Where? I do not even know where you live. Or rather where you will live.”
Cass thought quickly. The name of her hometown would mean little to him. Even the name of her home country would mean little.
She did her best to identify where she lived using names he would recognize. It was a bit like playing Twenty Questions. Then she had an inspiration.
“Forget about my house. It’s too iffy. My grandfathers have a fire station. You should leave the message there.”
The Jester looked confused. “A fire station? Is that like a signal fire?”
“No, it’s not actually a fire—it’s for people who put out fires. But that’s beside the point. The fire station isn’t even a real fire station anymore. My grandfathers have a store in it called The Fire Sale. The problem is, it doesn’t exist yet….”
Cass thought for a second. “What if you made some kind of time capsule or something? You know, like people put under cornerstones?”
“Hm, maybe…” The Jester, it appeared, was not exactly following every word. “What if I left a message under the lodestone? You would recognize the lodestone if you saw it….”
“OK,” said Cass eagerly. “Where will you leave the lodestone?”
She tried to push herself up farther, but she was too weak and she fell backward. Above her, the Jester was answering her question, but she couldn’t make out the words.
Again, she heard the voice saying her name. “Max-Ernest?” she called out impulsively.
And soon, though she tried as hard as she could to keep her eyes open, darkness overcame her.
Will I ever wake up again? she wondered as she fell asleep. And if I do, when will it be?

CHAPTER TWELVE
HERE GOES NOTHING

Max-Ernest had never seen Cass’s house looking like this.
Her mom, Melanie, was one of the neatest people Max-Ernest knew. It had been strange enough to find the front door unlocked with unread newspapers strewn around it, but to see dishes piled in the sink and even on the counter and on the table? The house looked almost as cluttered as Cass’s grandfathers’ store.
The one spot in the kitchen that wasn’t in complete disarray was the refrigerator. Max-Ernest and Cass had long ago devised a special, random-looking way of arranging the magnetic letters on the fridge that made it easier to leave coded messages for each other. In normal times, Cass had to reorganize the letters on an almost nightly basis because her mother compulsively alphabetized them during the day. And yet there they were, just as Cass had left them; two weeks had gone by without Cass’s mother touching the letters. Clearly, Melanie was not herself.
On the stove, a teapot was whistling. Max-Ernest got the sense the water inside had been boiling for a while.
He turned off the flame.
“Tea… tea is just the ticket….” Cass’s Grandpa Larry entered the kitchen, muttering to himself. He looked at the teakettle, perturbed. “Why did I think I heard it whistling?”
Max-Ernest coughed. “Hi, Grandpa Larry.”*
Larry’s eyes lit up. “Well, if it isn’t young Master Max—what a stroke of luck!” Larry offered his hand with forced joviality.
“Wayne. Melanie. Get down here and see who that sneaky old cat dragged in! Looks like we can go out, after all,” he called up the stairs behind him.
“I was going to see about getting a nurse to sit with Cass while we took her mother to dinner, but I feel much better with you here,” he explained to Max-Ernest. “What that girl needs right now is to be surrounded by people who love her, not more so-called medical professionals.”
Max-Ernest was shocked by the sight of Cass’s mother. There were dark, raccoon-like circles around her eyes. Her clothes hung loosely on her shoulders. Her hair was stringy. If you didn’t know any better, you’d think she, not her daughter, was the patient.
Larry and Wayne, in contrast, had trimmed their long unruly beards and looked much more cleaned and pressed than usual. If grief and anxiety had made Cass’s mother fall to pieces, it had had almost the reverse effect on them. They were rising to the occasion, it seemed, taking care of Melanie, not just Cass.
It took Cass’s grandfathers over an hour to convince Cass’s mother to leave the house for under an hour.
“We need to put some meat back on your bones,” said Wayne. “You look like you haven’t eaten in weeks.”
“That’s because I haven’t. How could I? Especially now…” She broke off.
“Do you think that’s what Cass would want—for you to waste away?” asked Larry heatedly. “You know how conscious she is of keeping everybody’s blood sugar levels up,” said Wayne. “Just in case you have to deal with a sudden electrical fire or earthquake or nuclear attack. Right, Max-Ernest?”
Max-Ernest nodded. This was absolutely true. Cass was always trying to keep everybody’s energy supply high.
“We’re taking you out for a burger right now, and when we get back I’m cleaning up this kitchen,” said Larry. “This place looks worse than the galley onboard the The Warren Harding.* I remember once when I was in the navy and I had to cook for six hundred seamen, a sudden storm rocked the ship, and my giant vat of chili spilled out onto the deck. It took me three days to clean, but I—”  
Max-Ernest looked confusedly at Larry. “Navy? I thought you were in the army.” “Details. Details. When, young man, are you going to learn to enjoy a good story?”
Eventually, Melanie succumbed to the pressure.
She agreed to go to dinner, but not without grilling Max-Ernest first: “You really know how to read the heart monitor?”
“Yes, I swear. Remember how many times I’ve been to the hospital? I’m an expert.”
“I don’t want you to be an expert. Just make sure her heart isn’t beating too fast or too slow.” “OK.”
“Or too unevenly.” “Has to be even. Got it.”
“And don’t touch the IV, whatever you do. You may think you’re a medical expert, but you’re not a nurse.”
“I know I’m not, I mean, I won’t.”
“If there’s any irregularity at all, anything, call me right away.” “OK.”
“Even if you don’t think it’s important.” “Even if.”
“If she blinks, call me.” “Definitely.”
“If she even twitches…” “Absolutely.”
“And if she mumbles anything…?” “I’ll call you.”
“Yes, immediately! And write down what she says, too.” “OK, I’ll write it down.”
“I’m very serious, Max-Ernest.” “I know you are.”
“Even if you don’t recognize the word. Write the sounds.” “OK.”
“Even if it doesn’t sound like a word, just a breath or a sigh.” “OK.”
“And you have Larry’s number in case you don’t get me for some reason?” “Yeah.”
“And Wayne’s?”
“Uh-huh. But they never leave their phones on.” “What?”
“Nothing.”
“If you can’t get any of us, the phone number of every neighbor on the street is next to the refrigerator. Also the number of the police and the nearest hospital and the city council office and school. And poison control.”
“OK.”
“But don’t poison her!” “No poison. Got it.”
“Of course, if there’s a real emergency, you should call 9-1-1 first. Do you have that number?”
“Um, it’s 9-1-1, isn’t it?”
“Please don’t get smart with me right now, Max-Ernest….” “Sorry, I wasn’t trying to be smart. You confused me, that’s all.” “I knew this was a bad idea.”
“Come on, Melanie,” said Larry. “We’re only going to be three minutes away.”
Before she could say another word, he and Wayne each took her by an arm and escorted her out the door.
“Well, here goes nothing,” said Max-Ernest to the empty room, bracing himself for his visit with the silent girl upstairs.

CHAPTER ZERO
Intermission

The author of this book has requested a fifteen-minute break to restore his energy before writing what promises to be a very intense and emotional chapter. Please take this opportunity to have a snack or use the restroom. If you choose to stay with the book during this time, we offer the following items for your consideration and/or consumption.!

IF YOU LIKE THE SECRET SERIES BY PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH, YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE:

a pie in the face
eating dirt
smelling your own farts
PEOPLE WHO HAVE PURCHASED THIS ISN'T WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE HAVE ALSO PURCHASED:
a bullwhip
an egg timer
a wig
TREAT YOURSELF:
a melted ice-cream cone
a sat-upon sandwich
a ton of bricks

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
AN EXTRA-EXTRA-LONG GUITAR SOLO

Max-Ernest had run all the way from the hospital, but he walked upstairs to Cass's room as if his feet were dipped in concrete, not even bothering to count the steps.!
Somewhere between the hospital and Cass's house he had begun to lose faith. Perhaps he should have been excited-now that he finally had in his possession the means of reading Cass's mind. But that was the problem. He was afraid he didn't have the means, after all.
The monocle, which he'd looked through again and again, hadn't helped him see into the minds of the healthy, walking, talking people he'd passed on the street. How could he expect it to help him look inside the mind of someone in a coma?
The one clear image he'd seen through the monocle was one that, on balance, he'd rather not have seen: the image of his adult self, chocolate-addicted and seemingly half mad.
It wouldn't hurt to try talking once, the older Max-Ernest had said.
The younger Max-Ernest assumed this meant he should talk to Cass. But was talking to her supposed to wake her up? That sounded like exactly the sort of superstitious nonsense he couldn't abide. He was embarrassed that his adult self would recommend it.!
The door to Cass's bedroom was wide open, but Max-Ernest stopped and stood in front of it for a full minute. It took all his self-control not to turn around and flee.
The last time Max-Ernest had been in her bedroom was the day Cass had fallen into the coma. With the exception of the hospital bed in the middle (and Max-Ernest couldn't quite get himself to look at that yet), much of the room looked exactly the same as it had looked then. Only sadder. In the past, Cass's sock monsters-there were now quite a few of them-had always provided a little levity.** Cass had never been one to play much with dolls or stuffed animals, but she used to give each sock monster its own voice and character; and the sock monsters would lecture Max-Ernest on the finer points of emergency communication and first aid. Now the monsters just stood lifelessly on their shelf, a Greek chorus gone silent. Even Cass's "Wall of Horrors" (as her mother called it) wasn't as entertaining as it had once been. All the pictures and articles that Cass had clipped and taped above her bed-the imploding mines and exploding volcanoes, the forest fires and the flooded towns-were grim reminders not only of disaster and destruction but of the pointy-eared survivalist herself.
Given that they have to die (and despite what the Masters of the Midnight Sun would wish,
everybody has to die sometime), most people would prefer to die in bed at home, surrounded by loved ones. Yet Cass, Max-Ernest reflected morbidly, would have preferred a much more dramatic demise--if not a shark attack or an avalanche, then at least a collapsed building or a plane crash.
If he couldn't save her life, could he at least improve her death? Would a real friend make sure she died not in her boring old bed but in some spectacular disaster?
Briefly, he considered ways of ensuring a more exciting end to the story of Cass's life. It was hard to think of one that wouldn't cause collateral damage. Years of friendship with Cass had trained Max-Ernest to think of worst-case scenarios:

* If he left Cass on the road, he was likely to cause a multi-car collision. The result might be even worse if he left her on a train track.
* If he threw Cass off a bridge, her body might never be recovered. He knew from watching television that an unrecovered body was never a good thing.
* If he set Cass's house on fire, the house next door would very likely catch on fire as well. And where would Cass's mother live afterward?
* As for natural disasters-earthquakes, hurricanes, killer viruses-you couldn't exactly snap your fingers and make them appear. And even if you could, the rule of unintended consequences was certain to go into effect.
No, there didn't seem to be a way to make Cass's dying any more tolerable. He would just have to try again to bring her back to life. No matter how long the odds.
Max-Ernest sat down on the corner of the hospital bed and, without fully intending to, started talking aloud to Cass. Fast. And at great length. The way he used to.
"Hi. I don't know if you can hear me. Actually, I'm pretty sure you can't. I know people always talk to plants and babies and stuff, but it's pretty silly, if  you ask me. You may as well just talk to yourself. Anyways, I'm talking to you now because, well, because I want to, I guess, even thoughit doesn't make any sense. And because, well, you never know, right? Maybe it is what will wake you up. I mean, just to get me to stop talking or something... By the way, speaking of babies, I'm going to have a baby brother. How 'bout that? My parents are being pretty weird about it, well, not weird weird, more like just terrible, but I'm kind of excited anyway. I always wanted a brother. Just to get my parents off my back. But now they're off my back and I still want a brother. Kind of weird, huh? Why do I keep saying weird? I hate it when people use that word! I guess I want to have somebody to talk to and stuff. Not that I don't have you, or that you're not going to be around to talk to anymore... Forget that-what I wanted to tell you was, no matter what happens, you'll... I'll always think of you as my friend. My first friend. My best friend. But more than a friend. Not more than a friend more than a friend! More like a sister, I guess... Anyways, I keep thinking about all those times you pushed me in the water even though I can't swim. Like at the Midnight Sun Spa-remember when we had to get through that moat to save Benjamin Blake and I didn't want to go in the water? Or that time you pushed me into the ocean off Dr. L's boat? Sure, I might have drowned, and you should probably be arrested for attempted murder, and at the time I totally wanted to kill you, but now that I think about it, I think you actually meant well. It was probably good for me to jump in the water and to have to swim. Besides the fact that the Midnight Sun would have fed me to sharks otherwise. I mean good like I learned a lesson. Not to be afraid of water or whatever. Yeah, yeah, I know, I'm still afraid of water, but you know what I mean. And there was that time with the waterfall at Wild World... Anyways, I want you to know, no matter what happens to you, I won't stop doing the kind of stuff you make me do. Even if I wanted to stop I couldn't because whenever I want to run away from something, your voice is in my head telling me to turn around and jump in the water. Like just now, when I wanted to run away from here... from you. No offense... Well, that's what I wanted to say. Just in case you were worried about me or anything... OK, I guess it's time to try the monocle. All this talking is just stalling, isn't it...?"
Wiping his tears, Max-Ernest took the Double Monocle out of his pocket-then immediately put it back.
"Oh, I almost forgot, Yo-Yoji sent me something to play for you first. He thought maybe it would activate some part of your brain or something. He says hi, by the way….”
Max-Ernest pulled his laptop computer from his backpack. He opened it on the bed next to Cass and then clicked on a sound file on his desktop. A loud guitar chord suddenly issued forth from his computer. Followed by an extended riff in Yo-Yoji’s unmistakable junior–Jimi Hendrix style.
“Cool, huh? And don’t tell me not to use the word cool—I know I’m using it right this time!”
After the guitar solo wound down, Max-Ernest closed the computer and put it back in his backpack.
At first he didn’t notice that the sounds persisted after they should have stopped—the reverberating guitar chords might almost have been a lingering echo—but when the music started to grow louder again, he turned around in amazement.
Yo-Yoji was standing in the doorway of Cass’s room. In his hand was the guitar Max-Ernest remembered so well, the blue guitar with the bright orange sticker for Yo-Yoji’s band, Alien Earache. Between his hair, which was now bright green, and his sneakers, which were an even brighter yellow, Yo-Yoji looked like he had flown in from some psychedelic alien planet.
“Most definitely cool! I think you were using the word just right, yo,” said Yo-Yoji, grinning. “So. Aren’t you going to say hey?”
“Hey,” said Max-Ernest, managing a small grin back—barely. “I thought you weren’t coming for another month.”
“I got my parents to send me back early. I’m staying with you, duh. My mom talked to your mom—didn’t she tell you?”
Max-Ernest shook his head. “I don’t know if she even remembers I exist these days.”
Yo-Yoji plugged his portable amplifier into an electrical socket, played one last deafeningly loud chord, then leaned his guitar against Cass’s Wall of Horrors.
His face turned somber as he took in the scene in front of him. “Whoa. It’s like a full-on hospital in here. How’s she doing?”
“Um, she’s doing…,” Max-Ernest stammered, unable to finish the sentence. “Not good, huh?”
Max-Ernest shook his head. “I was supposed to bring her back,” he said, his voice cracking. “It was my job.”
Yo-Yoji took a step toward Cass, then stepped back, visibly shaken. “Well, I know you’re doing your best. I know she knows it, too. OK?”
“She doesn’t know anything,” said Max-Ernest, hiding his face in his shirtsleeve so Yo-Yoji wouldn’t see him crying. “She’s in a coma.”
“You don’t know for sure. She might be listening to everything we’re saying right now, and thinking what a dork you are,” said Yo-Yoji, trying hard to remain upbeat. “Hey, is that supposed to be doing that—?”
Max-Ernest looked over at the heart monitor and thought he felt his own heart stopping. The green line on the screen had gone flat and the monitor was buzzing loudly.
A second later, the monitor turned off altogether. And so did all the lights in the room and in the hallway. Only a sliver of moonlight, passing through the tree outside Cass’s window, still illuminated the room.
Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji both rushed to Cass’s side. Max-Ernest felt her wrist.
“She still has a pulse! There must have been a power surge or something,” said Max-Ernest quickly. “You go down and see if you can turn the electricity back on—the fuse box is right outside the kitchen. I’ll call 9-1-1 just in case.”
By the time Max-Ernest picked up the cordless phone Melanie had left for him, Yo-Yoji was out of the room. His hand shaking, Max-Ernest started to dial the number, then realized he had no dial tone.
That was when he felt the hard, cold object sticking into his back.
“Put that down, old chum. I think I cut all the telephone wires, but I’m not taking any chances.” Benjamin Blake.
Of course it was Benjamin, Max-Ernest thought. They had discussed turning off the power in the hospital in order to get access to Cass. How much easier to do it here in Cass’s house!
“Hi, Benjamin,” he said, letting the dead phone drop to the floor. He was surprised that he was able to make himself sound so calm. “That was a really terrible thing to do, you know. What if Cass had been on a respirator or something?”
“Well, lucky for her, she wasn’t. Now give me the Double Monocle. Or I won’t hesitate to use this.”
“Use what?”
“What do you think I’m holding in my hand, my dear fellow?”
“You don’t have a gun. I may not be able to read your mind, but I know that.”
“How can you be sure? Maybe I got it from our mutual friends at New Promethean.” “The Midnight Sun don’t have guns. They don’t need them.”
“You really want to risk it, old chum?”
A good question. True, he didn’t remember ever seeing a Midnight Sun member hold a gun, Max-Ernest reflected. But they were so ruthless, they wouldn’t hesitate to give one to Benjamin if they thought it would further their aims.
“How does the monocle work, anyway?” Max-Ernest asked, stalling. “I couldn’t see into anybody’s mind with it. I saw… something else.”
“It’s the second lens—it gives you second sight. That means something different for everyone,” said Benjamin impatiently. “Some people see ghosts, some people see into people’s minds, some people see the future. It depends on who you are and what you need to know. Except you always need to know everything, so I can’t begin to imagine what you saw,” he sneered. “Now give it back to me. It’s mine.”
“Is it yours, really? Where did the Midnight Sun get it? Knowing them, I’ll bet it’s stolen.” “Not at all! It’s one of their oldest treasures, dating back to Lord Pharaoh himself. And I have been entrusted with it,” said Benjamin proudly. “I think you know Ms. Mauvais well enough to know we will all regret it if it gets lost.”
While Max-Ernest was considering his options, he caught a glimpse of blue—Yo-Yoji’s guitar flashing in the moonlight—and just managed to step out of the way as the guitar came crashing down on Benjamin’s head.*  
He turned to see Benjamin slumped at his feet, unconscious.
A flashlight rolled onto the floor. Clearly, the flashlight, not a gun, had been the object sticking into Max-Ernest’s back.
“Thanks, Yo-Yo—,” Max-Ernest started to say.
But it wasn’t Yo-Yoji standing over Benjamin, holding the guitar. It was—“Cass?!”

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
"Cass is back!"..."Three Friends Reunited"..."A Month Passes"...? Honestly, I don't know what to call this chapter.

PB, I'm sick of you procrastinating! If you don't pick a title right now, there won't be any artwork for the chapter... I'm serious... ok, I'm just going to draw whateveer I like and you have no right to complain! -gilbert
  
I know, you’re a bundle of conflicting emotions right now, aren’t you? Like Max-Ernest at his worst, you have no idea how you should feel.
On the one hand, you’re relieved that Cass is OK. You know her so well by now. She’s like a friend, and you wouldn’t want anything bad to happen to her. Nothing truly bad, anyway. Sure, she’s stubborn and willful. She makes mistakes that imperil herself and her friends. She’s sometimes not very nice to her mom. Her ears are too pointy. But she doesn’t deserve to be punished so severely. Certainly, she doesn’t deserve to perish on some long mental journey into her ancestral past.
You’re glad, in short, that she is still alive.
On the other hand, you’re absolutely furious with me, your not-so-humble narrator, for putting you through this arduous ordeal. Go on, admit it. You hate me. Why couldn’t I have told you at the outset that Cass was going to survive? Why couldn’t I have skipped the coma altogether? Why put you through every blip and beep and zig and zag of her heart monitor? Do I have no heart myself?
In my defense, I could say that it is my duty to report the truth, whatever it is, wherever I find it. But you know better than that. You know me better than that.
So I will respond by stating the obvious: you could have put the book down.
And yet you kept reading, didn’t you? You have kept reading about Cass and Max-Ernest book after book, if I am not mistaken, almost as if you enjoyed seeing these two innocent young people put in harm’s way. As if their trials and tribulations existed purely for your entertainment. As if they had no feelings of their own.
Please, therefore, spare me your criticisms and accusations, your pleas and complaints. At the end of the day, you, dear reader, are nearly as guilty as I. We’re in this mud pit together. And don’t you ever forget it.
There. I don’t know about you, but I feel much better getting that off my chest. Now can we please get back to the story?
Thank you.

Let us begin this chapter anew by asking the most basic question:
What awakened Cass?
If you’re the sentimental sort, you might be inclined to believe it was Max-Ernest’s long and heartfelt bedside speech that roused her. All Max-Ernest’s memories stirred Cass’s own memories and brought her back to the present. Combined with the familiar yet always jarring sounds of Yo-Yoji’s guitar, they were too powerful an antidote to resist. That’s probably what Cass’s grandfathers or even Pietro would say.
Personally, I think it more likely that the power surge Benjamin created was responsible and that an electrical charge jolted Cass awake. Just think of Frankenstein’s monster or a frog on a dissection table.
Of course, it’s also possible that she would have awakened on her own, regardless. As the all-powerful author of this book, I give you permission to choose whichever explanation you like best. The happy fact remains that Cass was back, returned from wherever and whenever it was that she had gone.
As for Cass, not only was she unsure what had woken her, she didn’t even remember what had put her to sleep.
After Yo-Yoji returned to her room, he and Max-Ernest filled her in on a few vital details (for example: that she’d been in a coma for two weeks; that, yes, that was Benjamin Blake lying unconscious at their feet; and that, no, the lights were not out because of a nuclear attack or even an earthquake but rather because their old classmate had cut the power). Then Max-Ernest tied Benjamin’s hands together. “This is the Handcuff Knot,” he explained to his friends. “The Spanish Bowline might also work, but I think it’s better for ankles.”
Meanwhile, Cass lit a couple of her emergency glow sticks, adjusted her IV to a more comfortable position, and settled back into bed. “OK,” she said. “You guys have been holding out on me long enough. What happened?”
“What do you mean?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“I mean, what happened to me? What else would I mean? I was in a coma, right? People don’t just fall into comas for no reason. Was I in a car accident? Did I almost drown? Do I have a rare infectious disease? Is there an alien virus in my brain? Tell me. I can take it….”
“You mean you don’t remember?” asked Max-Ernest. “For real?” “Remember what?”
“Eating the chocolate…”
“Señor Hugo’s chocolate? That’s what did this?” asked Cass, completely surprised. “Who gave it to me?”
“You did,” said Max-Ernest, confused. How could she not remember?
“Why would I do that? It nearly killed me and Yo-Yoji the first time! Right, Yo-Yoji?” Yo-Yoji nodded, grimacing. “No doubt. It was insane. Fun. But insane.”
“So, then, all that time, you were just… unconscious… you weren’t… traveling back in time?” asked Max-Ernest slowly.
“Was I supposed to be?”
They didn’t have a chance to discuss the issue further because Cass’s mother had gotten home. She and Cass’s grandfathers could be heard downstairs at that very moment worrying about the lack of electricity.
“Max-Ernest, are you up there? Is Cass OK?”
“Quick, you guys, untie Benjamin. Just pretend he came to visit with Yo-Yoji,” whispered Cass. “It’s going to be hard enough to explain why the lights are out.”
“Actually, it might make it easier. We could tell her there was a break-in and the burglars tied him up,” said Max-Ernest. “How ’bout that?”
Cass shook her head. “No, then she would call the police. Too complicated.”
“Wake up, dude—this is your lucky day,” said Yo-Yoji, tugging on Benjamin’s ear while Max-Ernest bent down to untie the knots he’d made only minutes earlier.
Was it really possible the chocolate didn’t work? Max-Ernest wondered. As happy and relieved as he was about Cass’s recovery, happier and more relieved than he’d ever been about anything before, he couldn’t help feeling a little disappointed.
And more than a little worried about what this meant for the future of the Secret.

1. Cass and the Secret
Cass’s first flash of memory came late that night, when she slipped under the covers of the hospital bed. (Her mother refused to let her sleep in her own bed until she’d been evaluated by a doctor.) Caught between the sheets was an odd gold monocle with two lenses. Cass didn’t know where it came from (later, of course, she would learn the story from Max-Ernest), but she knew that she’d seen it before. And when she looked through it, the sensation was familiar—so familiar that it didn’t even surprise her when she noticed the monocle gave her X-ray vision. She held on to the monocle and studied it for the better part of an hour, but she couldn’t remember whether she’d seen it five hundred years earlier or merely five weeks earlier.
She didn’t need a monocle. She needed a crystal ball.
Still, she clutched it like a baby clutching a blankie. It was, she hoped, her key to unlocking the secrets of the past, and to learning the Secret that it was her mission to guard in the future.
When she woke up in the morning, she remembered a bit of more of her journey, but only the way you remember a dream: in little fragments that make no sense when you try to put them together.
“There was a bright light, a ghost, a flying sword, a Renaissance Faire… or was that last year’s field trip? It’s all so confusing!” she told Max-Ernest on the phone.
As for the big questions, she couldn’t even remember whether she’d found the Jester, let alone whether she’d learned the Secret.
At this point, dear Reader, you know more about her life than she did.
Over the next few weeks, her mother celebrated Cass’s miraculous recovery, squeezing Cass every other minute and rarely letting her out of her sight (which was annoying but at the same time kind of nice), and Cass’s doctors kept calling her in for checkups and exams, desperately trying to explain what happened to her (which was funny but mostly aggravating). Cass, meanwhile, grew increasingly despondent—and increasingly certain that her epic journey had never taken place. She’d merely experienced a few chocolate-induced hallucinations and caused everyone a lot of anguish for nothing.
The worst was when Pietro visited, posing as a hospital social worker who wanted to help Cass “reintegrate into the society of the outside world.” (A funny role for a hermit like Pietro to choose; Cass couldn’t think of anyone less integrated into society.) Cass was pleased to see him, of course, and couldn’t help welling up when he told her how proud he was of her for having embarked on such a perilous expedition, but the words that followed were hardly reassuring.
“Please try and remember as much as you can, cara,” he said. “I do not want to put any more of the pressure on you, but I am afraid if too much of the time passes, you will never remember this thing that you alone can know. That you alone must know.”
“Can you help? Like hypnotize me or something?”
Pietro shook his head. “I’m sorry, I cannot. Nobody can. It is too dangerous. The temptation to learn the Secret for myself, it would be too great.”
Cass sank further into despair. What kind of Secret Keeper was she? She didn’t even know if she knew the Secret.

2. Max-Ernest and PC
Once Cass was safely returned to the present, Max-Ernest, naturally, was very curious to hear about her trip to the past—if indeed it was a trip she had made. Unfortunately, as much as he would have liked to spend all his time devising games and tests to jog Cass’s memory, Pietro had given him strict instructions not to do precisely that.
“She must remember this on her own—for two reasons,” said the old magician. “First, there is the danger you would learn the Secret. I do not say you would do so on purpose, but… it is a danger. Second, if she is pushed too hard, we do not know, her brain, it is fragile. The coma, it might return. We could lose her again to the past.”
Even if he’d wanted to disobey Pietro, Max-Ernest immediately became far too busy to spend much time with Cass. The very night that she recovered from her coma, Max-Ernest found himself returning to the hospital to visit another patient. This time, he didn’t have to sneak in; the patient was an official family member. His baby brother. Born several weeks prematurely. And very small. But nonetheless thriving.
“He looks like a peanut, a really old peanut,” he told Cass the next day. “Why do newborns always look so old?”
His parents, alas, did not fare quite as well as their new son. It seems they’d been avoiding the subject of names up until now, knowing how problematic it had been in the past (when their inability to settle on a name for Max-Ernest had resulted in his having two names and in their having two households). Sadly, avoidance had not healed old wounds. No sooner had their baby arrived than they started fighting about what to name him.
“We have to name him after my Uncle Clay,” declared Max-Ernest’s mother.
“No, we must give him the name of my Uncle Paul,” countered Max-Ernest’s father.
In the end, when neither parent would give in, their second son was given two names like their first: Max-Ernest’s brother became Paul-Clay.
Max-Ernest was not surprised and was only somewhat disappointed to see their argument escalate so quickly. He had been expecting them to fall out of love and re-divorce sooner or later—although perhaps not in the space of a single hour with a newborn baby crying one foot away.
Needless to say, once they were again living on opposite sides of their house, Max-Ernest’s father was not about to let Max-Ernest’s mother take care of his baby. And Max-Ernest’s mother refused to let Max-Ernest’s father take care of her baby. The situation called for a Solomonic solution.* Yet Max-Ernest feared if he offered to split Paul-Clay in half, they would take him up on it. After all, they had split their house in half more than once. The only way Max-Ernest could make peace, and also ensure Paul-Clay remained in one piece, was to offer to feed and care for the baby himself. They gratefully agreed.
Knowing how much he’d always disliked having two names, Max-Ernest shortened the tiny baby’s name to PC and proceeded to take charge of his little life.
For Max-Ernest, the next month was a nonstop series of diapers and bottles and burp cloths and sponge baths. I won’t go into detail about the first diaper change. Or even the second. Or third. Or fourth. Or fifth. But I will tell you that the sixth went smoothly, as did most diaper changes thereafter. Perhaps Max-Ernest was not the most natural caregiver in the world, but what he lacked in instinct he made up for in determination. When the baby was asleep, Max-Ernest read baby how-to books and watched videos and consulted medical professionals (the receptionist at the hospital was particularly helpful). During school hours, he arranged for his parents to “babysit” their own child according to a schedule so evenly divided and so strictly enforced that neither parent could complain of unfairness. Max-Ernest was such an efficient and unbending taskmaster that his parents, each of whom had previously been desperate to hold on to the baby, began to rebel and started to skip out on their babysitting sessions. In order to keep them in line, he had to start paying them to babysit with the allowance money they gave him.
By the end of the month, I am proud to say, Max-Ernest may well have been the most expert baby wrangler in middle school.

3. Yo-Yoji and the Nuts Table
Of our three young heroes, only Yo-Yoji had much contact with the older Terces members during the ensuing weeks. Violin master and Terces chief of physical defense Lily Wei had finally deemed his violin playing sufficiently advanced that he might forgo one hour of violin practice a day and devote it to martial-arts training. Yo-Yoji was ecstatic and spent as much time as he could under her martial/musical-arts tutelage. As Cass mentioned, Yo-Yoji had once eaten Señor Hugo’s chocolate and had visited his ancestral past himself; it seemed now that whatever samurai spirit had then possessed him had left Yo-Yoji with a residue of samurai skills.
When, three weeks after her recovery, Cass’s mother at last allowed Cass to return to school, and the three friends were reunited once more at the Nuts Table, Yo-Yoji gave a whispered update on the doings of the Terces Society. The report was not long. Owen, as usual, was away on assignment. Mr. Wallace, the certified public accountant who was secretly the Terces Society archivist, was spending every waking hour buried in files, searching for documents for Pietro. Pietro, meanwhile, was obsessively playing Tarocchino day and night.
“He says he’s trying to figure something out about the Midnight Sun, but I think that old dude just likes to gamble.”
“He wouldn’t tell you what he’s worried about?” asked Cass, hoping that she, Cass, wasn’t the subject that Pietro was losing sleep over.
Yo-Yoji shook his head. “I guess it’s really top secret. He said he sent Max-Ernest a warning about it.”
Max-Ernest frowned. “Me? What warning?”
Yo-Yoji shrugged. “No idea. All I know is, he’s really hoping Cass remembers more stuff. It’s almost like he thinks she’s the only one who can stop whatever it is—Oh wait. I wasn’t supposed to say that. He doesn’t want to—”
“He doesn’t want to put any more pressure on me, I know,” said Cass, miserable. “Thanks for telling me anyway.”
“Sorry—”
The conversation got cut short by the arrival of Glob and Daniel-not-Danielle at the Nuts Table.
“OK, who wants a free dinner at Medieval Days after Ren-Faire next week?” asked Glob, laying a couple of restaurant coupons in front of Max-Ernest. “Oh, I forgot—” He picked up the coupons before Max-Ernest could grab one. “You’re not interested in Medieval Days, are you, Max-Ernest?”
“C’mon, Glob, give it a break,” said Daniel-not-Danielle from behind his dreadlocks. “Either give him the coupons or don’t. It’s not that big a deal.”
“Free dinner? I don’t know about Max-Ernest, but I’m all over it,” said Yo-Yoji. “Me, too,” said Cass.
Cass wasn’t sure how she felt about Max-Ernest’s new non-friends at the Nuts Table. She couldn’t help resenting a little their intrusion on her life, and she didn’t relish the prospect of dinner with Glob. But, she thought, if the Renaissance Faire doesn’t help my memory, maybe Medieval Days will. Who cares if Renaissance and medieval aren’t the same thing?
“Oh well, guess you’re out of luck, Max-Ernest,” said Glob. “Only had two.” “Actually, if he wants, he can have mine… I can’t go,” said Daniel-not-Danielle. “You’re not going to Ren-Faire?” Glob looked horrified.
“Sorry, man. There’s that comic book convention, remember? My dad is so desperate for me to read anything with the word book in it, he said I could go even if I had to skip school.”
“I-I don’t know what to say,” Glob sputtered. “That’s… that’s betrayal!” Reeling from the shock, he sat down at the table.
Rolling his dreadlock-covered eyes, Daniel-not-Danielle sat down across from him.
There was no way for the others to continue talking without the newcomers hearing. The question of Pietro’s warning would have to wait.
The Nuts Table had rarely been so silent.
But that night, Cass dreamed about an eye, dark green and almost reptilian, staring at her through the Double Monocle. She awoke with a sense of foreboding, wondering just what Pietro’s warning might have been.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
The Glob Blog

THE GLOB BLOG
a Food Blog by, duh, Glob

ABOUT GLOB
Wassup, Munchers? If you’re reading this you probably know who I am, and if you don’t, like, where have you been, man? No, seriously, just in case you stumbled on this website by accident or, like, you did a search for “best blog in the universe” and wound up here, lol, I’m that guy you know who will eat anything once. And a lot of things twice. Just nothing that grows in dirt. Veggies suck!!!!! But I will make an exception for potatoes because some total genius figured out how to turn them into French fries. French fries rule! Especially the curly kind. And Cajun seasoning never hurts. Just sayin’. But enough about me—get ready to munch! Oh wait. I’m the one munching. Get ready for ME to munch! Don’t be jealous. Or not TOO jealous. Ha ha.

CATEGORIES
Bubble Gum • BURGERS • Candy (old school, like Raisinets) • CANDY (new kinds) • Chips • CHURROS • Cookies Corndogs • COTTON CANDY • Cupcakes • DONUTS (filled) • DONUTS (normal) • Donut Holes • DRIED MEATS • French Fries • Hot Dogs • HOT WINGS • Nachos • PIZZA • Pizza Pockets • POPCORN • Pretzels (hot) • PRETZELS (chocolate or yogurt-covered) • Soda • TACOS • Weird-Colored Food • WRAPS

SPONSORS
Medieval Days Family Restaurants: “Where every table is the Round Table, and you’re a knight every night!”

September X, XXXX
THE RENAISSANCE FAIRE
LIVE BLOGGING

9:20 AM*  
Hear ye! Hear ye!
Ha ha. Did you think I was going to go all Shakespearean on you? Actually, I thought about it but it’s too hard to write like that. Anyway, welcome to the Glob Blog’s official live blogcast of the Xxxxx School Annual Field Trip to the Renaissance Faire. We’re about to get off the bus and me and my handheld computational device are ready for some tasty Ren-Faire eats. Wait, what’s that I hear? Methinks it’s Ye Olde Bloomin’ Onion calling my name!

9:35 AM
OK, right now they’re walking us through the “village square” and I just stopped at a place where they’re selling bongo drums and bracelets and other hippie stuff ’cause there’s a plug where I can charge up. It’s supposed to be “market day” but I’m pretty sure in the Renaissance they weren’t selling tie-dye T-shirts. Next to the square is a big outdoor stage. “Theater in the round” they call it ’cause it’s, duh, round. Onstage now there’s some guy juggling and telling jokes but nobody’s really listening.
So Mrs. Johnson, our principal, is Queen Elizabeth again and she’s walking around making everybody bow and curtsy. Amber and Veronica (surprise surprise) are her ladies-in-waiting. They keep fanning her with these big feathers and holding her dress. This is what I want to know, why does Mrs. Johnson get to be Queen? Not that I want to be Queen!! King for the day, that would be me. But not King Elizabeth!!! That would be Daniel-not-Danielle. Heh. Just kidding! Or how about King Egbert-not-Elizabeth?? Kidding. Sorry, dude. But you got to admit it was funny. That’s what you get for staying home “sick” today!
By the way, kind of off the subject, but did you know that in Shakespeare’s time, all the actors playing the girl parts were guys? Our new school secretary, who’s kind of our Ren-Faire escort, just told us that. Which is pretty funny considering she’s a girl dressed as a guy today— sort of. She’s got a jester outfit on and she’s calling herself Lady Fool.
Oops. Better unplug. Everybody’s moving.

10:53 AM
So what about the chow, you ask? I keep thinking there’s going to be some of those big drumsticks you see in those pictures of King Henry the whatever-eth. Or maybe a pig roasting on a spit. But the closest thing I see in Her Majesty’s Food Court is a hot-dog stand with one of those old-fashioned British signs calling it the Regal Beagle. Oh, wait—they have corn dogs! My favorite kind of dog. Well them and my cocker spaniel, Munchie, lol. Let’s see, what else? There’s Sir Lancelot’s Chicken on a Stick… the Fishwife’s Fish and Chips… Btw, Glob Blog Tip: Malt vinegar = awesome on fries, which is actually what chips are. (English people sound all smart but they don’t even know the difference between a chip and a fry! Ha ha.)
We’re on the way to see a “camera obscura,” whatever that is. Some kind of dark room. People are joking that it’s a kissing booth. Really mature, huh? After that, it’s the big joust. Excuse me, the Medieval Days Royal Tournament and Joust. (Sorry, Medieval Days! Your Belgian waffles rock even if your burgers suck—kidding! No really, the burgers are good, guys. And I’m not just saying that because they’re paying me. Or am I? Ha ha.)
Anyways, I think I might have to hang by myself for a minute—let’s see, camera obscura or corn dog? No contest, right? If Mrs. Johnson finds out, do you think she’ll have me beheaded?

11:09 AM
Hi again. Tell the truth, did you think the Globster would have the huevos rancheros to ditch the field trip? Wrong!
o(^_^o) (o^_^o) (o^_^)o
(does victory dance)
So first I wait behind the hot-dog stand while everybody leaves to go to the camera obscura, which is no big deal except this guy from school named Max-Ernest almost blows my cover by saying hi really loud. He’s, like, the least cool-acting person I’ve ever met. Even by Nuts Table standards. (And HE thinks he’s too good to put on a pair of tights? Note to self: if you ever need a spy or start a secret society or something, do NOT invite him.) So anyway, after everybody’s gone and I don’t have to pretend to be super-interested in wind chimes anymore, I go up to the counter of the Regal Beagle. I’m about to order my corn dog, extra mustard, extra relish, when all of a sudden I smell this smoky barbecue smell. Forget hot dogs, that’s gotta be my pig on a spit! So like the saying goes, I follow my nose.
I figure I’ll find a bbq right behind one of the food stands but actually there’s this dried-up riverbed and then woods. That’s it. End of Ren-Faire. I was gonna turn around but then I hear this crackling sound on the other side. I don’t see anybody but when I look close there’s some footprints leading into the woods. And when I look up there’s a puff of smoke coming from somewhere deeper in. The bbq!
OK, it makes me a little nervous, but I decided as a fearless chowhound I have to go check it out. I’m telling all of you now—just in case I don’t come back alive. Ha ha.
Wish me luck! And don’t forget to dine at Medieval Days! “Eat, Drink, and Be Medieval!” Your official court taster,
—Glob

11:35 AM
EMERGENCY POST—PLEASE READ! HELP NEEDED!
I know this sounds like a prank but right now I’m hiding in a cave and scared for my life. THIS IS NOT A JOKE. If nobody ever hears from me again, somebody please tell my little sister I lied, she wasn’t really born with a tail. Daniel-not-Danielle, you can have all my vintage action figures AND my Guinness World Record–breaking snack cake wrapper collection. I know you think this blog is bogus, but I would seriously consider keeping it up if I were you. You could even expand to movie and game reviews. Hello banner ads! That could be some serious bank.
Alright, I better catch you up while I still have some power left. On the other side of the riverbed there wasn’t really a trail but you could follow all the crushed leaves and muddy footprints and stuff. I walk for about five minutes and it’s like I’m not getting any closer. At first I figured it was a bbq for people who work at Ren-Faire, which seemed cool. You know, like, insider stuff. But now it’s seeming kind of far for Ren-Faire people. Is it just people camping? Like tramps or outlaws? I keep going though ’cause I feel like I’m on one of those nature expedition shows and anyway it’s something to blog about, right?
Suddenly, the smoky smell gets really strong and I hear all this chanting. Not like at a ball game, more like monk-sounding. You know, like in Latin but probably way older? So I get to this place where the trees have been cut. There’s a big fire in the middle with lots of huge logs burning. A dozen or so people are standing around in a circle. They’re all wearing these long cloaks and my first thought is, oh, OK, they’re from Ren-Faire after all and they’re practicing to be monks for a show later.
Something tells me not to go up to them yet though. I look around expecting to see a table full of barbecue fixings, cole slaw, and whatever. But there’s no food at all. And what’s really weird is when I look closer at the fire, I see it’s not a bbq at all. There’s no meat, no grill. Just this big glowing ball. The ball is glass I think, with, like, a white fire inside. It’s so bright it’s hard to look at, like the sun.
The chanting changes and suddenly I can understand what they’re saying. Just the word SECRET over and over. Like if they say it enough times that glowing ball was going to shoot into the sky or something. Then this woman, who looks like the leader, she holds up this big goblet and drinks out of it. She’s in a cloak like everybody else but underneath she’s wearing some kind of white sparkly dress and she’s really pale and maybe the prettiest woman I’ve ever seen, but she never smiles. Seriously, it’s like her face never moves. She’s kind of scary but she is definitely H-O-T. I better stop looking at her, I think, or she’s going to notice and like turn me into a statue or something. Ha ha. She passes around the goblet and everybody drinks out of it and I notice another weird thing. They’re all wearing these white gloves.
OK, now, this is the part you’re really, really not going to believe, but I swear on my snack cake wrapper collection it’s true. After the goblet goes all the way around the circle, the leader lady holds it up in the air and… just leaves it there. In the air. Floating. Then guess what happens! The goblet tips and this white liquid that looks like milk pours out for a second and then disappears in the air. Just vanishes. Gone. I swear there was a ghost drinking from the goblet. Either that or they were the greatest magicians of all time but who was the magic for? There wasn’t any audience.
The whole scene is just total spooksville and I finally start backing away. I guess I make a noise or something because that’s when they see me. It’s hard to describe their expressions, but it was like I was a monster and about to steal their baby.
Somebody goes, “Hey, you, what are you doing there?” And somebody else is all “Get him!” or something like that.
So I start running as fast as I can. I think I hear footsteps following me, but I’m too scared to look back. I’m going so hard my chest hurts and I can’t breathe. I look for a place to hide. Right off the trail there’s this big boulder shaped kind of like a hamburger with a bite out of it. Underneath where the bite is, there’s this hole just big enough to fit through. So I squeeze in. (I know, my stomach isn’t so small, yeah yeah, ha ha, so what.) It turns out there’s a cave. Like with a dirt floor and stone walls. A cave cave. And that’s where I am now. Some people have been here before because there are soda bottles and a corn chip bag. I’m starving but the bag’s empty, I looked, plus it’s not my favorite brand anyway. (I won’t name it though, just in case they want to sponsor me someday. Ha ha.) And now—oh wait, this thing is beeping, I better post before it runs out of juice!

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
HATS

Cass couldn’t get used to seeing so many jester hats.
There were red ones and green ones, velvet ones and felt ones. Some were oversize with long pointed ends stretching out like antlers. Some were small and economical, not much more substantial than skullcaps. Some had brass bells, others silver.
And yet, as wildly varied as the hats were, they all bore a teasing resemblance to a certain hat that was hovering on the edge of her memory. The three pointed ends flapping and flopping this way and that—she’d seen a hat flap and flop in just that way. The bells jingling and jangling at the wearers’ every step—she’d heard bells jingle and jangle with just that tone and timbre. She was more and more convinced that she must have found the Jester at some point during her journey—why else would the bells on the hats ring so many bells in her head?—but where? When? What did he say?
Things only got worse when they got to the camera obscura—a small round, windowless structure that stood on a rise near the center of the faire. Their guide, Opal—or Lady Fool, as she insisted upon being called—was wearing not only a jester hat but also a diamond-patterned harlequin outfit not unlike one the Jester might have worn. (Although, truth to tell, Cass couldn’t imagine the Jester’s outfit being decorated with rhinestones.) As Opal led their group into the dark interior, her hat-bells taunting Cass with their jolly jingles, Cass suddenly remembered hearing the Jester’s bells jingling in a similar room. A dungeon, that was it! The royal dungeon. So she was right. She had met the Jester. At least once.
Or was her mind playing tricks on her?
The camera obscura was about the same size as the dungeon cell in Cass’s memory, but much more crowded—there were about three classrooms’ worth of kids—and here one wall was illuminated with an exact image of the world outside. Opal stood in front of the wall, holding a stack of cue cards.
“You are now inside a camera—a big camera,” she read, her nasally New York accent in full effect. “In fact, this was the first kind of camera ever invented.”
Cass blinked. As she looked at the image on the wall, she had the sense that she was hanging from her feet, looking at the world upside down. The ground was the sky, and the sky the ground. Costumed faire-goers in wizard capes and fairy wings walked around on the dirt sky, apparently weightless.
“Is that picture upside down? Or am I just dizzy or something?” she whispered to her friends. Yo-Yoji grinned mischievously. “What are you talking about? Looks right-side up to me.” “That’s not funny,” whispered Max-Ernest, who, although a month had passed, still half-expected Cass to fall back into a coma any second. “What if she really was dizzy? It could be a sign that something was seriously wrong. I think it’s supposed to be like that, Cass….”
“Oh,” said Cass, only somewhat relieved.
She hadn’t wanted to tell her friends, for fear they would make her go home, or worse, go to the hospital, but she really was not feeling like herself. It wasn’t just the jester hats. All morning, ever since she’d woken up from the dream about the green eye, she’d had the sensation that she was in two places at once. Or maybe that she was between two places. It was hard to pinpoint the sensation exactly.
“You see that little hole—?” Opal pointed to a quarter-sized hole in the wall opposite her. Light streamed out of it in a cone shape, as if it were the lens of a movie projector. “Light travels in a straight line. So when light rays pass through a small hole like that one, the rays cross, flipping an image upside down.”
“I bet you could make one of these yourself,” said Yo-Yoji. “It might be helpful in a stakeout.”*  
“Silence! We will not tolerate any more noise!” said Mrs. Johnson, who was standing on the side of the room, flanked by Amber and Veronica, her ladies-in-waiting. “Pray continue, Lady Fool.”
“Yes, Your Majesty,” said Opal. “Such rudeness in your royal presence momentarily shocked me into silence.”
The secretary bowed and continued reading. “In the Renaissance and after, artists—even many very famous ones—used camera obscuras in order to paint more naturalistically. They traced the image it projected….”*
Somebody gasped dramatically in the darkness. “They traced it? So you’re saying all those famous artists cheated!” she cried out.
It was Amber. She didn’t seem outraged so much as gleeful at the thought.
In fact, this was what Max-Ernest had been thinking. But hearing Amber say it made him wonder if it might not be wrong.
What is the cheating? Pietro’s words rang in his head. There is no cheating in magic, only in poker.
A few feet away, Benjamin Blake coughed and started mumbling. “… yellow… cheating… pencil… orange… oven…”
“What’s that, Benjamin? Did you have something to say to your schoolmates?” asked Opal. He mumbled again, and the crowd of students tittered.
Max-Ernest started pushing his way through to Benjamin. Ever since the night Cass woke up from her coma, Benjamin had been trying to talk to Max-Ernest as well as to Cass and Yo-Yoji, but they all had given him what is known as the cold shoulder. For obvious reasons. As far as Max-Ernest could tell, however, the blow to the head from Yo-Yoji’s guitar had “cured” Benjamin. He was no longer the suave and insouciant dandy; he was his old, inarticulate, artistic, synesthetic self.
Hopefully, this meant he was no longer under the Midnight Sun’s spell.
“I don’t know why I’m doing this for you,” Max-Ernest whispered. “You owe me.”
Then he started translating for the room at large:* “Ben says the artists didn’t cheat. A camera obscura is just a tool. It’s like a writer using a computer instead of a pencil. Or a cook using an oven… I guess as opposed to a campfire—?”  
Mrs. Johnson wasn’t buying it. “Perhaps I am old-fashioned, but I… we are with our lady-in-waiting. Cheating is cheating,” she said huffily.
She sounded rather as if she were about to march out of the camera obscura in protest. Instead, she walked in front of the illuminated wall. Upside-down images of the outside world flitted across her, making the tiara on her head sparkle and the black pendant around her neck gleam.
With so much else to see, nobody seemed to notice that the pendant was floating ever so slightly in the air.
“Next thing you know, they’ll be defending forgery!” she declared, patting down her pendant. “Now students, I… I mean, we want you to start exiting quietly, and single file, not like a bunch of heathens.”
The small room erupted in noise, all the students trying to leave at once. On his way out, Ben tugged on Max-Ernest’s sleeve.
“Thank me later,” said Max-Ernest, pushing away from him. “Can’t talk right now.”
“What’s that around Mrs. Johnson’s neck?” asked Cass when Max-Ernest rejoined her and Yo-Yoji. With all the clamor around them, she could speak almost normally without being overheard.
“Yeah. Why does it look like it’s floating?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Because it is,” said Max-Ernest. “It’s a lodestone. A naturally occurring magnet.” Cass scratched her head. “I knew that, but how did I know that…?”
“Mrs. Johnson is obsessed with magnets now. You should have heard her talking about them when I went to give her the Tuning Fork.”
Cass took the Double Monocle out of her pocket and surreptitiously looked at the lodestone pendant through it. Although there were at least half a dozen arms and shoulders in the way, the monocle gave her a clear view. As she stared at the black stone, it glowed blue and appeared to pulsate. Cass felt a tug on the monocle—the pull of the lodestone—and a matching tug on her memory.
“I’ve seen that stone before,” said Cass, amazed to see another object from her journey into the past appear in the present. “It looked different, bigger, rougher, but it’s the same stone.”
The sense of being in two places at once intensified. Suddenly, she couldn’t bear it a second longer. “I’m feeling totally… claustrophobic. I have to get out of here right now.”
Before her friends could stop her, she started pushing through the crowd and rushed out of the room.
Excited whispers followed in her wake:

“That’s that girl that was in the coma!” 
“Do you think she’s OK?”
“Maybe she’s having a relapse!”

“She’s going to be fine,” said Max-Ernest angrily. He then started pushing his way out after her.
Yo-Yoji followed. “Yo, guys, wait up. You know, you might actually need me sometime!”

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
SEEING THINGS

They caught up with Cass in front of a dusty carnival tent. A sign hung on a chain:  
  
CLARA THE CLAIRVOYANT
SHE SEES ALL

"I'm going in here," said Cass.
"Then we're going in, too," said Yo-Yoji. "Pietro said we should keep you in sight." "I'll be fast."
"I thought you were feeling claustrophobic," said Max-Ernest. "That's the kind of condition that gets worse over time. It doesn't just vanish- "
Ignoring her friends, Cass pushed the heavy curtains aside and entered the tent. She wasn't sure why, but she simply had to go inside. It was almost as if she'd been hypnotized and instructed to enter precisely this tent at precisely this time.
"Hello, Cassandra."
It was the Seer. Clara. Sitting at her tree-stumptable in front of a deck of tarot cards. As soon as Cass saw her, Cass remembered every detail of her appearance. The long straggly hair. The skin so pale it was translucent. The eyes of unblinking blue.
"Hello, Cassandra," Cass echoed, recalling that hers was one of the names by which the Seer was known.
She'd never been so happy to see someone she barely knew. At last her memories were coming back! Of course, it was odd that the Seer should be here at the Renaissance Faire five hundred years after Cass had last seen her. But Cass felt a renewed sense of confidence; she was certain that the Seer's appearance--and everything else--would now be explained.
"It is good to see you again," said the Seer. "Sit. I will read your cards." She gestured toward the waiting stool.
Her ears tingling with anticipation, Cass obeyed.
As before, the Seer passed a hand over her tarot deck and a card flipped over as if by its own volition. A trick all the more astonishing now, in the present, in the real world.
"Ah. The Ace of Wands returns. But this time, right-side up." The Seer looked quizzically at Cass. "You have come to return something, then?"
"No, not really... like what?"
"Did I not once tell you that something must be returned to its rightful owner?"
Cass strnggled to recall their conversation. "Yeah, but... I don't think I ever figured out what it was."
"Oh no? I should think it would be obvious. Do you not have something with you that is mine?”
Cass hesitated, perplexed. Then… “Oh, you mean the monocle!”
“The Double Monocle, yes. For years it has been out of my hands and away from my eye.”
Fumbling, Cass brought the monocle out of her pocket and handed it to the Seer. Cass couldn’t help feeling a pang of regret; the monocle had been her primary link to the past. But if giving up the monocle was the price of restoring her memory, she would gladly pay.
The Seer put the monocle up to her right eye and peered out at Cass. Then the Seer looked beyond Cass, seemingly to some distant time or place invisible to the naked eye. She appeared to be testing the focus as one would with binoculars or a zoom lens.
“Ahh. Much better. Thank you,” she said, lowering the monocle.
“You’re welcome, but I thought you meant return something that I already took,” said Cass, sorting through her still-disjointed memories. “When you read my cards before, I didn’t even have the monocle yet… right? How could I return it?”
A hint of a smile crossed the Seer’s lips. “Yes, the cards work in mysterious ways, don’t they?”
She passed her hand over another card. It flipped over in the air, then settled back down like an autumn leaf.
“Did you ever find your jester?”
“Yeah, I think so…. At least, I’m pretty sure we were in a dungeon together.”
The Seer nodded. “He may need finding again. Look, this time it is he who is upside down
—”
She pointed to the latest card to turn faceup. It was the Jester, the card that so closely
resembled Cass’s Jester, the Jester. But he was facing Cass instead of the card reader—upside down in tarot terms.
Cass frowned. “You’re not saying I’m supposed to go back in time again, are you?”
The Seer shook her head. “I wouldn’t advise it. You have spent too much time out of your time already. It has changed you. I could see right away.”
“Changed me? How?” asked Cass, alarmed. “Are you not seeing things yourself now?” “Like what? What things?”
“Things you didn’t see before.”
“No, I mean… why? Should I be… seeing things?” “Only if there are things to see.”
“Are there… things to see?” Cass asked, growing nervous.
“There is always something to see… just not always with those two marbles you call your eyes.”
“With what, then?”
“Have you heard of the inner eye—the third eye?” “Yeah, I guess, but I never really believed in it….”
“A tiny housefly has hundreds of eyes. Why should it be so hard to believe you have three?”* “Are you saying I’m a…”—Cass stumbled over the word—“seer… like you are?”  
“Perhaps not so much like me, but we are both called Cassandra, aren’t we?” Cass nodded hesitantly.

“And your Secret? Did you find that?”
“No, at least, I don’t think so…. No, wait, that’s it—that’s why I remembered the lodestone!” exclaimed Cass, almost jumping off the stool in her excitement. “The lodestone hanging around Mrs. Johnson’s neck—the Jester said he would leave the Secret under it. Or, like, a message about the Secret.”
“Oh?” queried the Seer mildly. “The Secret must be very short if it can be written under such a small stone.”
“So then… you don’t know whether I’m right about Mrs. Johnson’s necklace?” asked Cass, a little frustrated that her revelation hadn’t been greeted with more enthusiasm.
“I can only tell you what the cards tell me—”
The Seer flipped the next card over with a breezy wave. On the face of the card, a robed man held his wand aloft in his right hand while pointing down with his left—the Magician.
“Remember: as above, so below.”
“I remember—but what does it mean?”
“That depends on what is above and what is below, naturally.”
Based on her previous experience with the Seer, Cass had expected the Seer to lay out several more cards, but it appeared from the way the Seer folded her hands that she considered the reading finished.
“OK, then. Thanks, I guess.”
Cass stood up, distinctly unsatisfied, but anxious to tell her friends the news.

Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji were waiting impatiently outside the tent.
Before either could say a word, Cass launched into a breathless account of her adventures with the Jester, almost all of which she now remembered, ending with the Jester’s promise to hide a message about the Secret under the lodestone. “The thing is, I don’t know if he ever even found the Secret. He hadn’t even heard of it until I told him about it.”
The other two Terces members stared at her in disbelief.
“How could he not have heard of it?” asked Yo-Yoji. “He’s practically the only one who ever knew it!”
“I know, I couldn’t believe it, either. But the worst thing was that Lord Pharaoh already knew about the Secret—that’s what the homunculus told me—so I made the Jester promise to find it before Lord Pharaoh did….”
“You… you made him?” Max-Ernest stammered.
“Wait… you didn’t… meet Lord Pharaoh, did you?” asked Yo-Yoji, stammering as well. Cass nodded, seeing again the dark green, reptilian-looking eye magnified by the Double Monocle. “Yeah, it was pretty scary.”
Her friends shook their heads in amazement, unable to hide how impressed they were to hear Cass speak in such a familiar way about the Jester and Lord Pharaoh—the Terces Society’s legendary hero and legendary villain, respectively.
“Well, logically, the Jester must have found the Secret eventually,” said Max-Ernest, recovering. “He did start the Terces Society, didn’t he?”
“And you think that rock around Mrs. Johnson’s neck—that’s the Jester’s lodestone?” asked Yo-Yoji.
Cass nodded. “Uh-huh. Well, carved up. But from the same rock. I know it sounds crazy.

Like how would she get it? But it looked exactly the same when I looked at it through the monocle.”
“Maybe it’s not so crazy,” said Max-Ernest. “Mrs. Johnson said the lodestone came from the same witchy aunt of hers as the Tuning Fork.”
“Wait… wasn’t her name Clara?” asked Cass, noting silently that the name was the same as the Seer’s.
“Yeah. That’s the one. How ’bout that?”
“So that means if we want to see the lodestone up close, we have to get it from… oh man!” Yo-Yoji groaned.
The others nodded glumly in agreement. Once again they were going to have to retrieve a precious heirloom from their principal.
“That’s it, it’s over. This time we won’t be expelled; we’ll be sent straight to juvenile hall!” declared Max-Ernest. “I almost wish you never went to talk to that mannequin.”
“What mannequin?” asked Cass.
“Uh, the one in the tent you’ve been in for the last twenty minutes. You must have fed it a lot of quarters.”
“What do you mean?” Cass’s ears began to tingle with panic. “There’s no mann—wait just a sec. I think I forgot something.”
She turned and ran back to the tent, throwing aside the striped curtains.
Sure enough, sitting behind a window in a small booth, where a moment ago she’d seen the Seer, or thought she’d seen the Seer, there was now a mannequin. More accurately, an automaton. A robot fortune-teller in a red velvet turban. The kind you see at carnivals. The kind that hands out little cards that say things like You will live a long and prosperous life or You will have many children.
Other than Cass, the only living thing in the tent was a fly buzzing around a dusty shaft of sunlight. Not even the tree stump was there.
Cass stared at the booth, shaken.
It was true: she was seeing things. And hearing them, too.
She looked down, expecting to see the monocle lying on the ground. It wasn’t there, either. Strange. But by now she was so unsettled, so insecure about her perceptions, that she couldn’t be certain she hadn’t left the monocle someplace else earlier. Or perhaps she’d never had it at all and she’d just imagined the monocle as she’d imagined the Seer?
Distraught, Cass was about to exit when she noticed the coin slot next to the fortune-teller’s hand. It read: 25 CENTS. On impulse, Cass dropped a quarter into the slot.
The carnival-style lights that circled the booth started to flash and the robot fortune-teller nodded jerkily.
“Greetings, traveler. Clara the Clairvoyant sees all,” said a recorded voice that sounded nothing like the Seer’s. “Ask your question. Then read your fortune.”
Cass looked over her shoulder to make sure she was still alone, then whispered, “Was what I saw real? Was Cassandra here?”
A bell rang and a small card appeared in the fortune-teller’s hand. Gears creaking, the fortune-teller lowered her mechanical arm and dropped the card into the dish at the bottom of the small opening in the booth window.
What am I expecting? Cass asked herself as she took the card. It’s probably just going to tell me what my lucky number is or something.
She turned the card over.
As above, so below, it read.
Cass was so startled she almost dropped the card. That was when she saw what the fortune-teller was wearing. The monocle magnified the automaton’s pale blue eye the same way it had the Seer’s. Only the automaton’s eye was marble.
“So she was here…. You are here…,” Cass whispered.
The fortune-teller’s bell rang; and as Cass watched, the fortune-teller lowered the monocle and dropped it into the dish reserved for the fortune-telling cards.
“You want me to… take that back?” Cass stammered.
The bell rang. And the fortune-teller dropped another card into the dish next to the monocle.
You have a gift. You will have need of it.
Cass blinked, unsure whether the message was an answer. Did it mean the monocle was a gift? Or was it another reference to second sight?
Again the bell rang. Again the fortune-teller dropped a card.
You are haunted by the past.
“Do you mean haunted haunted?” Cass asked nervously. “Or just, like, worried about the past?”
Again the bell. Again a card.
As before, so now.
Thoroughly mystified, Cass waited for another card to drop. But none appeared. She pulled the first card out of her pocket and placed it on top of the others.
Your lucky number is seven, it now read.
Cass walked out, clutching the monocle tight in her hand and wondering if this was what it was like to be crazy.
Inside the tent, the fly continued to buzz.

When Cass emerged from the fortune-teller’s tent for the second time, Max-Ernest was standing alone.
“What happened to Yo-Yoji?” she asked, blinking in the sunlight. “He went to go sign up for the joust.”
“You mean, like, to be in it? That’s crazy!”
“How else are we supposed to get close enough to Mrs. Johnson? She’s been surrounded by Amber and Veronica all day. Plus that secretary lady—”
“I can’t believe they would let Yo-Yoji sign up. I thought kids weren’t allowed.”
“We’re not. That’s the beauty of it! If he wins, he gets knighted by the Queen. If he gets caught, he gets sent to the principal. He sees Mrs. Johnson either way. It’s win-win. How ’bout that?”
“How ’bout that…?” Cass didn’t like the plan (mostly, I suspect, because it had been concocted in her absence), but she didn’t have an alternative plan to offer.
“By the way,” said Max-Ernest, lowering his voice. “I figured out what the warning was that Pietro sent me. What you said before about Lord Pharaoh and the Secret, it reminded me.”
“Yeah, what?” asked Cass, still focused on the joust.
“Well, I got this note—it was in code but it said LORD PHARAOH LIVES.”

Cass snapped to attention. “Did you just say ‘Lord Pharaoh lives’?”
“Uh-huh. I thought it was from the Midnight Sun. You know, like kind of a taunt. But now I think Pietro must have written it. I just can’t figure out why.”
“Well… it could be true,” said Cass slowly. “Did you think of that?”
“True that Lord Pharaoh is alive? But he would be five hundred years old,” Max-Ernest scoffed. “Besides, didn’t Mr. Cabbage Face say he ate him? We even saw Lord Pharaoh’s grave—”
“You’re right, it was a crazy idea.”
Cass shivered. A horrible, horrible thought had occurred to her, but she pushed it away. The important thing was to get her hands on the lodestone. To learn the Secret.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
JOUST
  
Your Majesty, dukes and duchesses, counts and countesses, barons and baronesses, lords and ladies, knights and damsels, lads and lasses, yeomen and serfs, peers of the realm, and—whom did I miss?—students from the Xxxxx School, let the games begin!”
Standing in the middle of the stadium and dressed in a suitably bright and ballooning satin outfit, the announcer, or “Master of Arms” as he’d introduced himself, lowered his bullhorn and raised a trumpet to his lips.
“In the real Renaissance, I don’t think they would’ve had Porta-Potties next to the royal stands,” complained Max-Ernest, who was sitting in said stands next to Cass. The Porta-Potties were directly behind them, and the smell was distinctly unpleasant.
“Trust me, in the real Renaissance, it was worse,” said Cass. “People just went wherever they wanted to.”
“Gross…. How do you know where people went in the Renaissance, anyway?” asked Max- Ernest. “—Oh right, I forgot.”
“Actually, you’re right. How do I know? I don’t know anything anymore,” said Cass grimly. “What do you mean? What’s wrong?” asked Max-Ernest. He had seen Cass in many moods in the past—but never in a self-doubting one. It was disturbing to his sense of order.
Cass shrugged. “Nothing. I don’t mean anything….” She wasn’t about to tell Max-Ernest the true reason behind her state of mind. Not today, anyway. If she told him about her experience— or non-experience—with the Seer, he would probably rush her to the hospital.
As they spoke, about twenty knights on horseback (or men and women dressed as knights on horseback, I should say) rode into the ring. Each wore a number over his or her breastplate and each held a flag, some representing nations, others representing local businesses or bowling leagues.
“Ladies and gentlemen, I now present the finest knights in the kingdom,” declared the Master of Arms. “They have come from all over the country, indeed from all over the world, to compete in a contest of skill and will. The winner will be honored by the Queen herself.”
He proceeded to introduce the contestants, each of whom had adopted a grand title for the occasion: Sir Daniel the Daring, Sir Michael of the Moors, Lord Phillip the Fair, and so on.
Cass and Max-Ernest applauded when they heard Yo-Yoji announced: “And here, from Feudal Japan, comes Sir Yoji-San, the Samurai Knight!”
Yo-Yoji rode into the ring on a feisty black horse. He was dressed in traditional European-style armor (a couple sizes too big) but holding a samurai sword and carrying a Japanese-style flag (decorated with what I can only describe as some sort of anime alien—or perhaps it was meant to be one of Cass’s sock monsters). As his horse pawed the ground and jerked his head this way and that, Yo-Yoji squirmed in his saddle; he looked as if he might fall off before the games even began.
“Since when does Yo-Yoji know how to joust, anyway?” asked Cass.
“He doesn’t. I don’t even think he knows how to ride a horse,” said Max-Ernest. “But he knows all about swords from all those kendo lessons with Lily. Plus he has samurai experience, remember?”

“Oh great. I’m sure this will be a piece of cake, then.” “Quiet! The Queen speaks!”
A hush fell over the crowd. Mrs. Johnson stood up in the royal box.
“Loyal subjects, we thank you from the bottom of our royal heart for being here today on this great occasion,” she said, attempting to maintain her English accent as she shouted into a bullhorn. “Brave knights, who among you will be our champion? To earn our patronage, you must have the courage of a lion and the cunning of a fox, the eyes of an eagle and the ferocity of a wolf, the heart of a bear and the mind of a… well, never mind. May the best man win!”
The crowd clapped and cheered, “Long live the Queen!”

I regret to say Yo-Yoji’s first effort was not auspicious. Despite his vaunted samurai experience, he passed by the quintain entirely, got thrown from his horse, and wound up pole vaulting over his lance—a neat trick but hardly a way to earn points in a hastilude.*
Happily, he was able to stand up immediately afterward, a bit bruised but mostly unscathed.
The audience’s laughter was, as you can imagine, uproarious.
Soon, however, the games turned from military showmanship to direct combat. Now on foot, the knights competed in a round-robin of hand-to-hand matchups featuring a variety of weapons, including not only swords but flails, battle-axes, and spears—all, of course, stage props and not real weapons. (This was, after all, not a real knights’ tournament but a staged event at a faux Renaissance Faire.) I am pleased to inform you that Yo-Yoji’s performance improved greatly with every matchup. Highly trained by martial-arts master Lily Wei, Yo-Yoji was light on his feet and extremely deft with the sword and flail especially. He had an unerring instinct for when to thrust, when to parry, and when to leap over the heads of his opponents (well, perhaps not literally over their heads, but he did jump quite high considering the weight of his armor).
By the time the knights were supposed to remount their horses, Yo-Yoji’s score, previously the lowest, qualified him for the final round of jousting—the result of which would determine who would become the Queen’s champion.
The competition had come down to four contestants.
Compared to the first round of quintains, the targets were smaller, the stakes higher. But luck was on Yo-Yoji’s side. The first of the four contestants seemed to lose his grip on his lance at the last moment, so that he barely grazed his quintain and earned a low score of four. The second contestant, fighting a gust of wind, missed his target entirely.
Yo-Yoji was next. When the Master of Arms’ whistle sounded, Yo-Yoji spurred his horse. This time, he sat firmly in his saddle—it was clear he intended not to be thrown off again—and he held his lance straight, connecting near the center of his quintain and earning a more-than-respectable nine out of ten points.
A moment later, the whistle sounded once more. The fourth contestant was about to make his move when suddenly his horse bucked as if spooked by something. The unfortunate knight was thrown to the ground. While he shouted for his horse to stop, the horse tore off in the direction of the stables, kicking up a cloud of dust in its wake.
“Is it possible Yo-Yoji just won by default?” asked Cass.
Before Max-Ernest could answer, there were shouts and cries from the other end of the stadium. Like everyone else in the audience, Cass and Max-Ernest turned to see what was causing the commotion.

“This is part of the show, right?” asked Max-Ernest.
A hitherto unseen knight had charged into the ring. His tall horse rearing, he broke through the ranks of the other knights—causing their horses to buck and rear in turn. He seemed to have an agitating effect on everyone present, whether equine or human.
“You on the gray horse! What are you doing here?” cried the Master of Arms. “This tournament is for people who have reserved spots only—I’m sorry, you will have to leave the ring immediately.”
But the mystery knight did not leave. On the contrary, he reined his horse and settled in the center of the stadium. The picture he created was unnerving, to say the least. Whereas the other knights all wore brand-new armor that sparkled in the sunshine, he was clad head to toe in dark and rusty sheets of steel that reflected no light, even though his horse was standing in full sun. A medieval-style helmet masked his entire face, a single narrow slit enabling him to see but not be seen. Scale-like gauntlets covered his hands and forearms, giving them the quality of dragon talons. And he wore steel boots on his feet that looked heavy enough to sink a ship. His horse, meanwhile, was a good five or six hands taller than the other horses, and a great deal wilder-looking.
“Please, can somebody escort this man out of here?” The Master of Arms was gesticulating in all directions. A handsome silver-haired man dressed as a Renaissance courtier, with a wide ruffled collar and black boots, walked up to him and whispered in his ear.
“Begging your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, there may be a change of plan,” announced the Master of Arms after a moment, obviously very flustered. “The new entrant calls himself the Unknown Knight. I am told he represents the Queen’s cousin, Mary Queen of Scots.”
As he said this, the Unknown Knight bowed toward a woman standing in a box opposite Mrs. Johnson’s. She was pale and beautiful and dressed in a sparkling white gown—much finer, it must be said, than Mrs. Johnson’s—that showed off her Barbie doll–thin waist. She tilted her head ever so slightly in acknowledgment.
The Master of Arms turned toward Mrs. Johnson. “Your Majesty, this is highly irregular, but according to this gentleman, your cousin requests that we make an exception for her champion.”
“Very well, the Unknown Knight shall joust with the winner of the previous contest,” declared Mrs. Johnson, playing along in as regal a fashion as she could muster. “It saddens us to say it, but we have just learned that Mary Queen of Scots has been plotting against us. She would take her own cousin’s life so that she might be Queen. This joust will settle our feud.”*
As the courtier joined the woman identified as Mary Queen of Scots, the audience booed and hissed good-naturedly.
“Down with the traitor from France!” “Long live the Queen!”
Most of the audience seemed to assume this final joust had been preplanned, but the nervous face of the Master of Arms suggested otherwise.
Max-Ernest frowned, watching. “Do they look familiar to you?”
“Why? Who do you think they are?” asked Cass cautiously. She had recognized the courtier and Mary Queen of Scots right away, or thought she had, but she no longer trusted her own perceptions.
“Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L—who else?”
Cass nodded. “That’s what I was thinking. But why? What are they doing here?” “I know, it doesn’t make any sense. Who do you think the new knight is?”

Cass looked down at the knight standing like a shadow in the sun. She felt a strangely familiar chill. “I don’t know…. Should we warn Yo-Yoji?”
It was too late. The final joust was beginning.
While Yo-Yoji and the Unknown Knight sat on their horses at opposite ends of the field, the Master of Arms explained the rules of the joust. “Five hundred years ago,” he said, “knights would continue fighting on foot once they were unhorsed in a duel to the death. Today, however, we will consider unhorsing your opponent to equal a win.”
He addressed Mrs. Johnson once more. “Your Majesty, will you bless this field that these men may duel?”
Mrs. Johnson nodded somberly and raised her hands in benediction.

It was hot inside the armor. Yo-Yoji could hear himself breathing in his mask and could even, he thought, hear his heart beating beneath his breastplate. Sweat dripped into his eyes, but with one hand on his lance and the other hand holding his shield and at the same time the reins of his horse, there was no way to wipe his face. The tournament was taking far too long: he wanted a shower.
He forced himself to concentrate on the task at hand.
It was difficult to see or hear very much under his helmet; he had no idea who the new knight was or where the knight had come from, only that they were meant to joust with each other. Am I really supposed to unhorse him? Yo-Yoji wondered. What if his opponent got hurt? What if he, Yo-Yoji, got hurt? He’d been lucky the last time he landed on the ground. What if this time was different?
The whistle blew.
He wasn’t aware of urging his horse forward, only of the sound of pounding hooves below and the rush of wind on the sides of his helmet. In mere seconds he and the mystery knight were closing in on each other. But for Yo-Yoji, there was something surreal and slow-motion-like about the moment. He found his eyes drawn inexorably toward his opponent. At the very least, Yo-Yoji had been able to see the other knights’ eyes above their masks, but when he tried to catch a glimpse of the mystery knight’s eyes, he saw only shadow. He could see nothing of the knight, not even a sliver of neck or wrist. Only armor and chainmail.
The crowd fell silent, everyone waiting breathlessly for the inevitable collision.
In his brief reverie, Yo-Yoji had lost crucial time. His opponent’s lance was aiming straight for him; from Yo-Yoji’s perspective, it looked like an oncoming arrow. It was too late for him to try to land a blow. All he could do was try to protect himself. Just in time, he lurched to the side and raised his shield, deflecting the lance with a loud screech.
The crowd cheered.
Yo-Yoji shuddered. A delayed reaction to the near miss.
As his horse headed automatically for the far side of the stadium, Yo-Yoji glanced down at his shield. The deep gouge in its gleaming surface confirmed what he’d seen. The mystery knight’s lance had been real. All the other lances, including his own, had little balls on their tips; his opponent’s had been needle-sharp. Only Yo-Yoji’s instinctive lurch to the side had saved him. An inch or two in one direction or another and he would have been impaled.
Was it possible the other knight was intentionally trying to kill him? Or was the knight just so determined to win that he was indifferent to whether Yo-Yoji lived or died?

Turning his horse around, Yo-Yoji noticed he was no longer sweltering hot. His sweat had turned clammy. His armor was now cold to the touch. This is what it is like to be afraid, he thought.
He didn’t know what to do. Bow out? Cass and Max-Ernest would be disappointed, but they wouldn’t want him to risk getting killed, would they?
Shivering, he looked over at the Master of Arms to see if he’d noticed anything awry, but the satin-clad man was raising his whistle to his lips, about to signal another round.
Just then there was a shout from the royal box:
“Halt! The joust must stop!”
It was the school secretary, Opal, still in costume as Lady Fool. She pointed to Yo-Yoji. “I just recognized that boy. He is a student at our school and not allowed to participate in this tournament…. Yoji, dismount and remove your armor immediately!”
There was chaos as the Master of Arms verified what the secretary was saying, then hurriedly declared the Unknown Knight the winner.

When Cass and Max-Ernest caught up with Yo-Yoji, he was out of his armor and standing by the guardrail. The secretary gripped him by the arm as if he were a little boy likely to run off.
“You’re right, that was totally against the rules for Yo-Yoji to be in this. Are you taking him to see the principal?” asked Max-Ernest hopefully.
“I’m sure Mrs. Johnson will deal with him just as soon as she’s done with that knight,” said Opal, nodding.
She nodded to the other side of the field, where the Unknown Knight, still unseen under his helmet, waited on his horse in the winner’s circle with the Master of Arms. Mrs. Johnson strode regally toward him, a blue ribbon in her hand.
“Good, I mean, oh, that’s too bad,” said Cass. “You know, we knew Yo-Yoji entered the competition. But we didn’t say anything. So we should be in trouble, too.”
The secretary raised her eyebrows. “Is that right?”
“Sir Unknown, champion of Mary Queen of Scots,” said Mrs. Johnson, speaking into the Master of Arms’ bullhorn, “with this ribbon, we bestow upon you our royal favor—”
She raised the ribbon in the air for the Unknown Knight. When his gauntlet-covered hand reached down, however, he didn’t take it; instead, he yanked the lodestone pendant off the neck of the unsuspecting principal.
“Well, I never—!” she shrieked. “Are you crazy?!”
Straightening himself once more on his horse, the knight laughed—a hollow, echoing laugh that sounded as if it came from the depths of his rusty old armor.
“Go!” he shouted to his horse, spurring it forward.
Mrs. Johnson screamed and pointed. “Thief! Thief! Stop him! That man took my necklace!
Thief!”
At the edge of the field, the knight unexpectedly reined his horse and looked back over his shoulder.
The frantic Mrs. Johnson kept shouting. “Guards! Security! Somebody, do something! Arrest him!”
Cass knew it was unlikely, but she felt certain the knight was looking at her. She thought again of the awful possibility that had occurred to her earlier. There was no way… or was there?

Then, as the crowd watched aghast, the knight galloped out of the stadium with his right hand raised, dangling the lodestone like a prize.

As soon as the Unknown Knight disappeared, Mrs. Johnson turned her ire on Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L—or Mary Queen of Scots and her courtier, as she knew them. They were sitting expressionlessly in their front-row box, watching events unfold.
“You and you, I—I mean, we,” sputtered the furious Mrs. Johnson, still trying to maintain her character as Queen Elizabeth, “we don’t know what you think you’re getting at entering a maniac like that in this competition, but you’re not leaving until he returns with my necklace!”
She pointed to the uniformed royal guards lined up in front of them. “Guards! Seize my… our traitor cousin and that awful courtier of hers this instant!”
The guards didn’t move.
Ms. Mauvais stood slowly, her dress glittering in the sunlight. Seemingly without trying, she looked ten times the queen Mrs. Johnson did.
“Please spare us your theatrics, Your Majesty, or should I say, Madame Principal. A queen should not have to shout in order to be heard.” Indeed, although Ms. Mauvais’s voice was but an icy whisper, it could be heard all across the stadium, as if it were being carried by a cold breeze.
She gestured to Dr. L, who stood and bowed. “I’m afraid my courtier and I must refuse your invitation. We have pressing business to attend to—a kingdom to build, you might say—and we simply cannot be detained…. And now I have a message for a certain extremely meddlesome little girl here today….”
Ms. Mauvais looked directly at Cass. “Darling, it’s over. You and that ragtag bunch of circus freaks have lost. We hope never to see you and your friends again, but rest assured, if we do, it will be for the last time. It’s no longer just us mere mortals you will have to contend with. Our master has returned and he will not be stopped…. Guards—”
Ms. Mauvais snapped her white-gloved fingers at the guards who had ignored Mrs. Johnson only moments earlier. They immediately stood at attention and saluted.
Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji gasped involuntarily. All the guards were wearing white gloves.
“Friends—” Ms. Mauvais snapped her fingers again.
Suddenly, the entire crowd of people behind her stood up—and revealed that they, too, were all wearing white gloves. They raised their hands in unison and made a single sweeping gesture. Then, in silence, they descended onto the field and filed out the gates behind Ms. Mauvais and Dr. L.
Our three heroes stared after them. It was like watching a flock of seagulls rise from the beach and disappear into the horizon. Only in this case the seagulls might better be described as birds of prey.

CHAPTER NINETEEN
OPAL, LIKE THE ROCK 

A moment later, they were standing in the winner’s circle with a tearful Mrs. Johnson. “I don’t know who that lady thinks she is! Is everybody out of their minds?”
She pointed at Yo-Yoji, who looked more than a bit rattled by his brush with the Unknown Knight. Not to mention the sight of all those white gloves.
“You, it’s all your fault! If you hadn’t entered the contest, he wouldn’t have been able to steal my necklace.”
“That doesn’t make sense,” said Max-Ernest, unable to stop himself. “The Unknown Knight would still probably have won, he would have just won against someone el—”
“And now you again!? I shouldn’t have let any of you back into school after that last episode with the Tuning Fork. This time, you’re all expelled. Forever!”
Mrs. Johnson threw off her tiara. No longer a queen, she was their principal once more. Or ex-principal.
“Actually, I think that’s redundant,” said Max-Ernest. “Expulsion is always forever. That’s what it means. Otherwise, it’s—”
“Not another word out of you, young man!” snapped Mrs. Johnson. “Otherwise, it’s suspension,” he concluded. “Er, sorry.”
“Now, now, these kids don’t mean any harm,” said Opal soothingly. “If they retrieve your necklace for you, will that be enough to get them back in your good graces?”
“And just how are they going to do that?” Mrs. Johnson scoffed. “Never mind about that. Just tell me you won’t expel them.”
“Oh please. Right now that necklace is halfway to Mexico. Or wherever it is medieval knights go to pawn jewelry these days. There’s no way those three are going to find it.”
“Not medieval, it’s Renaiss—,” Max-Ernest began, but Cass silenced him with a look. “Don’t underestimate them,” continued Opal. “Didn’t you say they managed to get something from you before? What was it? A tuning fork?” “True. There’s no doubt they have a talent for thievery….”
As the kids listened in disbelief, the secretary somehow persuaded their principal to let them have twenty-four hours to find the necklace. After that, the principal would call the police about the necklace—and their parents about expelling them.

Minutes later, Opal ushered them into the stables. The still-shell-shocked Yo-Yoji flung himself down on a bale of hay.
“Why are you helping us?” asked Cass.
“Just doing my job,” said Opal with the hint of a smile. “Aren’t secretaries supposed to be helpful?”
“I was wrong about you,” said Max-Ernest. “I thought, well, I didn’t trust you.”
Opal laughed, incredulous. “Oh really? After I gave you that mirror? And the monocle?” “You gave them to me?”
“Well, left them for you. Same difference. You didn’t really think I would be so careless with my things, did you?”

“Oh, no, I guess not,” said Max-Ernest, turning red because he had assumed exactly that. Opal grinned. “And what about the KICK ME note? A nice touch, I thought.”
“What KICK ME note?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“I knew you wrote that!” said Max-Ernest, ignoring Yo-Yoji. (For some reason he was still reluctant to admit he’d walked around with a sign on his back that said KICK ME.)
“Well, I didn’t write the message on the other side,” Opal corrected. “That was from Pietro.” Cass stared at him. “You know Pietro?”
Chuckling, the secretary sat down on a stool and pulled off her rather large silver platform shoes. “You guys really don’t know who I am, do you?”
“You mean you’re not Opal… like the rock?” asked Max-Ernest.
“Nope, not any kind of opal.” She took off her trademark opal ring and tossed it over her shoulder.
“Don’t worry, it was plastic,” she said, seeing the shocked expressions around her.
She peeled away each of her absurdly long fingernails in rapid succession, revealing the bare, unpainted, and very short nails underneath. Then she reached up, gripped her blond hair in her hand, and yanked off what turned out to be a very big wig. Underneath, her hair was brown and short-cropped.
“Here—why don’t you keep this?” she said, tossing the wig in the direction of Max-Ernest. “You never know when you’re going to need a quick disguise.”
Finally, the secretary started wiping makeup off her face with a tissue. The shadow of a beard began to show.
Cass smiled for perhaps the first time all day. “Owen!”
“No kidding. Took you long enough,” said the Terces Society’s resident spy and master of disguise, now speaking in a deeper voice without any trace of a New York accent. “Pietro had me visit your school to find out what I could from Mrs. Johnson. We knew the Midnight Sun was watching her, but we thought it was about the Tuning Fork. We didn’t think it was about a magnetic rock…. Well, don’t just stand there, help me. My other stuff’s over there—” He pointed to a small army duffel on the floor that looked about as different from Opal’s patent leather purse as a bag possibly could.
Cass handed it to him and he dumped the contents unceremoniously on the ground: jeans, T-shirt, tennis shoes, and a pair of sunglasses.
A moment later, Owen came out of a horse’s stall dressed as himself—something the kids had seen only once or twice before. (Although no longer a working actor, he was almost always dressed as someone else, whether that was a cowboy in a ten-gallon hat or a secretary in a ten-gallon wig.)
“Speaking of disguises, you guys have any guesses about who that spook was in the armor? The Unknown Knight? Anybody get a look at his face?” They all shook their heads.
“Even you, Yo-Yoji? You were pretty close,” Owen observed.
“I couldn’t even see the dude’s eyes. Just, like, shadow. His mask was pretty big.”
“It wasn’t ’cause of the mask,” said Cass, finally fessing up to what she’d been fearing. “It was ’cause he’s invisible.”
Haltingly, she told them about her encounter with Lord Pharaoh—and about how she had been forced to give him the last remaining bit of Time Travel Chocolate. “I didn’t think it would be enough to work, but it must have been,” she said, stricken. “When I heard about Pietro’s warning, I started to worry. Now I’m sure of it.”
“How can you be sure of it?” asked Max-Ernest. “I mean, the average person would consider the whole story pretty unlikely.”
“I just am. Did you see the way he looked at me? It was like we were communicating or something. Plus, Ms. Mauvais said her master has returned. Who else would that be?”
“From what I hear from Pietro, I think Cass is probably right,” said Owen. “I knew there was something not normal about that guy!” said Yo-Yoji.
“I’m sorry. It’s all my fault,” said Cass, miserable. “I should never have eaten the chocolate.
Now, instead of me having the lodestone, Lord Pharaoh does!”
“Don’t blame yourself. You did what you had to do,” said Owen, not exactly contradicting her. “I’ll be back as soon as I can. In the meantime, you guys try to find out which way Lord Pharaoh went. But do not, I repeat, DO NOT go after him, do you hear me?”
“Why not?” asked Yo-Yoji. “He was going after me.”
“Yeah, that’s my point. I’m the guy who’s always ready to throw you into the deep end, so if I’m telling you to stay away, there’s gotta be a good reason, right?”
“You know, I have met Lord Pharaoh before,” Cass couldn’t help saying.
“Was he a ghost at the time? Whose powers we don’t even know? If he’s out of his armor now, he could be anywhere and we wouldn’t see him. He could be in this very room.”
Cass glanced around through the monocle. “He’s not.”
“Well, there’s some good news at least!” Throwing his rucksack over his shoulder, Owen walked out the door.

“How do we figure out where Lord Pharaoh went if we don’t go after him?” asked Yo-Yoji after Owen had disappeared. “Just follow his tracks out of here, then stop?”
“I doubt we’ll even get that far. He’s a ghost. For all we know, his horse is a ghost, too, and it won’t leave any tracks,” said Max-Ernest. “Hey, what are you doing here, Ben?”
At some point while they were talking, Benjamin had walked in. He tugged on Max-Ernest’s sleeve and started mumbling.
“He says he has an idea where we could look for Lord Pharaoh,” Max-Ernest translated. “How do you know about Lord Pharaoh?” asked Cass angrily. “Have you been eavesdropping?”
“He’s still spying for them, I knew it!” said Yo-Yoji. Benjamin shook his head over and over.
Max-Ernest translated again. “He says he just wants to help. He feels terrible about what he did and wants to make it up to us.”
“OK, so how’re you helping, Ben?” demanded Cass.
“He says the camera obscura is located on the highest point in the area. He stayed there after the rest of the school left and noticed you can see all of Ren-Faire and even outside of it. Maybe we’ll be able to see Lord Pharaoh from there…. Actually, not a bad idea, Ben.”
A faint smile lit Benjamin’s face.

CHAPTER TWENTY
AS ABOVE, SO BELOW

Minus the crowd of students, the camera obscura had a calmer, more contemplative quality—like a museum or a library.
The screen did indeed offer a sweeping, panoramic view of the Renaissance Faire but, alas, only of one side of the faire.
“Lord Pharaoh could be riding past us right now, but we can’t see him because this hole is pointed in the wrong direction,” Max-Ernest complained.
“Maybe we should get out of here, start asking around. Somebody must have seen which way he went,” said Yo-Yoji. “What do you say, Cass?”
“Just a sec,” said Cass, taking out the Double Monocle. “I think I just saw something.”
At first, when she looked at the image on the wall through the monocle, not much looked different. There were no signs of Lord Pharaoh that she could see, on horseback or off, in armor or out of it. But there was one jester hat that couldn’t help grabbing her attention—despite her best efforts to ignore all the jester hats at the faire. The point wasn’t that it looked so much like the Jester’s hat (although it did). The point wasn’t even that the man wearing the hat looked so much like the Jester (although he did). The point was that this particular hat, as well as the man wearing it, was only visible when she looked through the monocle. Three times she removed the monocle to check, and three times the man disappeared from her sight. And yet when she raised the monocle to her eye, he looked just as clear and present as anybody else who crossed her path.
Her ears flushed with excitement. It was the Jester. Her Jester. In her world. Just… upside down.
As above, so below, she thought, remembering the upside-down jester in her last tarot card reading.
The Seer had told her to follow the Jester. Is this what she meant? Or was Cass just seeing things? Maybe the Jester isn’t really there at all, she thought, and my head is re-creating him from memory. Then again, her entire journey into the past had—in a sense—been in her head. It was all so confusing!
The sound of a cell phone ringing brought Cass’s attention back into the room.
Max-Ernest took his phone out of his pocket and looked at the number, befuddlement on his face. “Who do you think it is?” he asked his friends. “The only people that ever call me are you guys. Unless it’s about my brother…?”
Nervous, he clicked on.
“Hi, Max-Ernest, it’s Daniel.”
“Who?”
There was a pause on the other end of the line. Then, through gritted teeth, “Daniel-not-Danielle.”
“Oh! Uh, hi.”
Daniel-not-Danielle spoke in a rush. “I didn’t know who else to call. I didn’t want to call the principal or anybody—just in case, well, Glob said he ditched the camera obscura and I didn’t want to get him into more trouble.”
“You’re calling ’cause he ditched?”

“No, no, it’s ’cause of what he wrote on his blog.”
“I thought you were at that comic book thing,” said Max-Ernest, confused.
“I was. I got home early and went online.”
Daniel-not-Danielle proceeded to tell Max-Ernest all about Glob’s blog posts (omitting the part where Glob makes fun of Daniel-not-Danielle as well as the part where he complains about Max-Ernest), right up to the part where Glob sees what looks like a ghost drinking from a cup.
Max-Ernest put his hand over the phone and whispered to the others: “Glob saw Lord Pharaoh—I think the Midnight Sun might have him!”
Into the phone, he asked: “Where’s the last place he said he was?”
Then, to the others: “He crossed some dry river-bed and he’s supposedly hiding in a cave now. Unless they got him… There’s no riverbed around here, is there?”
While Max-Ernest was speaking, Cass was watching the Jester cross just such a riverbed. In the past, she might have found the coincidence remarkable, but she was getting very used to seeing the story-lines of her life overlap and converge.
“I know where it is—I think I know where he went,” she said, not mentioning the Jester. She was reluctant to tell her friends about him, still fearing what would happen if they knew about her visions.
“If you find him, do me a favor,” said Daniel-not-Danielle. “Tell him he shouldn’t call himself ‘the Globster’—it’s embarrassing.”
“I think that’s supposed to be a pun,” said Max-Ernest helpfully. “You know,
lobster/Globster.”
By the time Max-Ernest got off the phone, his friends were already out the door.

“Are you sure this is where to go?” asked Max-Ernest about ten minutes later. “We’re getting kind of far away from Ren-Faire.”
Cass didn’t answer, just kept leading them farther into the woods. Holding the monocle up to her eye, she looked like a particularly determined naturalist chasing after a rare species of butterfly.
Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji were a bit mystified that Cass was so certain about the direction they were heading, but they weren’t about to let her continue on her own, not with her having woken up so recently from a coma, not with the Midnight Sun and the ghost of Lord Pharaoh lurking about.
“Is anybody else hungry?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“I am,” said Max-Ernest. “And I’m all out of chocolate!”
Not stopping, Cass felt around in a side pocket of her backpack, pulled out a plastic baggie full of her trademark super-chip trail mix, and tossed it over her shoulder.
Her friends greedily ransacked the baggie, Max-Ernest extracting as many of the chocolate chips as he could. (Luckily, it was not a hot day and the chocolate chips hadn’t melted yet.)
“Hey, I think that might be the boulder Glob hid under,” said Max-Ernest. “He said it was shaped like a hamburger.”
Yo-Yoji called out to Cass, who was getting farther and farther ahead. “Wait up, Cass! We found the boulder!”
“You guys check it out, I’ll meet you back there!” Before they could argue, she disappeared behind a tree.

The Jester was still a good thirty or forty feet ahead of her. Whenever she got too close, he would speed up. When she lagged too far behind, he would slow down. Because the monocle refused to stay in her eye socket, she had to hold it up. Whenever she needed her hand to move brush or leaves aside, she had to remove the monocle—meaning often as not she couldn’t see the Jester. But he was always there when she looked through the monocle again. It was if they were connected by an invisible thread that might slacken or tighten but would never snap.
Eventually, he stopped and let her come much closer. “Hi,” she said shyly.
He put his finger to his lips to shush her. Then pointed ahead to where the path ended at a large oak tree.
He smiled at her. Then he vanished.
She felt suddenly very sad and bereft. Why hadn’t he spoken? Why had he led her all the way out here only to disappear?
She ran to the oak tree and saw that on the other side of it was a dirt road not unlike the one she had walked on in the beginning of her journey into the past. Up ahead was a small gas station. It looked old, abandoned.
Then she saw him. Not the Jester. Lord Pharaoh.
Correction: then she saw where he was. She couldn’t see Lord Pharaoh himself.
He had taken off his helmet, and his seemingly empty suit of armor appeared to be sitting astride his horse all by itself.
Just as she raised the monocle to her eye, he looked up and saw her. His face was now visible to Cass, but hardly more alive. He looked even emptier inside than he had before.
Cass felt her ears prickling with fear. Be brave, she told herself. The Jester wouldn’t have led you to him if he didn’t think you were strong enough to face him.
Lord Pharaoh broke into an ugly smile. “Cassandra, is it? They tell me that is your name. It suits you—the bearer of bad news. I knew when I first met you that you would be a blot on the future.”
The ancient alchemist dismounted. “I hear from my… what shall I call them?… my modern-day colleagues that you are a terrible pest.”
Off the horse, he was no less imposing; he towered over Cass when he reached her. She took a step backward—and found herself up against a tree.
“If you’re talking about Dr. L and Ms. Mauvais, they… they wish I was just a pest,” Cass stammered, trying to sound much tougher than she felt. “Did they tell you that every time they tried to stop me, I stopped them?”
“They told me enough!”
He gripped her shoulder with his cold, steel-clad hand. She shrank from his touch but could not wriggle free.
“Now is your chance to make up for your sins and those of your ancestors.” “My ancestors?” Cass managed to whisper.
She didn’t know whether it was due to his ghostly state or to some other alchemical trick, but she could feel Lord Pharaoh’s supernatural strength. She had no doubt he could strangle her with a single hand.
“That infernal jester. And that heathen bandit-woman. Do you not know what they did?” Cass shook her head. It was all she could do not to cry.
Lord Pharaoh shook his free fist in fury. “I was this close to getting my hands on the Secret, this close—”
“But you never found it?” Cass fervently hoped this was the case.
“Oh yes, I did—I found it!” said Lord Pharaoh, enraged. “Those tomb robbers who dug it up didn’t know what they had—ignorant thieves! I came to them about a small statue of the goddess Mut. When I saw that torn piece of papyrus, I forgot all about the statue. I knew right away that it was worth more than all the gold in all the tombs in Egypt. On the back were hieroglyphics that could change the course of history.”
“The Secret?”
“Yes, the Secret, you little fool… Before I could translate a single hieroglyphic, those sniveling scavengers snatched the papyrus away from me. They could see how much I wanted it and kept demanding more and more money. Until I had no choice but to have those vermin exterminated.”
“You killed them?” asked Cass, horrified.
“A minor detail. The important thing was for me to fulfill my destiny. You see, I was—I am—the only man on Earth capable of understanding the Secret. I who have studied all the ancient arts. I who have mastered alchemy like no man before or since. I who have made life with my own hands—”
“But the Jester got the Secret first?” Cass guessed.
“He and that thieving woman—confound them! They ambushed my manservant moments before he was to deliver the papyrus to my doorstep. Imagine, Lord Pharaoh foiled by a pathetic comedian and his wife!”
Cass nearly smiled, realizing that this meant the Jester and Anastasia had married, but her face remained frozen.
“Naturally, my servant paid with his life. Now, unless you want to pay with yours, you will tell me how this rock works.”
He dangled the lodestone in front of Cass. It was the first time she’d seen it up close. As Max-Ernest had noticed previously, it was shaped like an eye and had a vein of gold running through it. It spun around. The back of the pendant was polished silver and it flashed in the sun.
“A lodestone attracts metal, yes, but what use is that to me? If I grind it into a powder, will a spirit rise? If I crack it open, will I find a pearl? The gold thread that runs through the stone, is that the key? I thought perhaps your jester would have left a message on the back, but the back is smooth as glass. It’s like a mirror, but you remember what it is to be a ghost; I cannot even see my own reflection in it.”
He closed his fist around the lodestone.
“What is the lodestone’s secret? Where is the Secret?” “I don’t really know,” said Cass truthfully.
Then she remembered what the homunculus had said about Lord Pharaoh. His weakness is vanity. Show him a mirror and you will gain a minute.
“But I can show you your reflection in it.”
“How?” His tone remained sour, but she could tell his curiosity was piqued. “Hand me the stone and I’ll show you.”
Lord Pharaoh hesitated only briefly. “If you try to run off with it, I will find you, and I will destroy you.”
“I know,” Cass assured him, although she knew nothing of the kind.
As soon as Lord Pharaoh dropped the lodestone in her hand, she felt it pulling toward the monocle. The stone fit snuggly within the rim of the monocle, almost as if their dimensions were designed to match. Cass quickly glanced through the monocle to confirm you could see through to the reflective silver surface on the back of the stone, then she held it up for Lord Pharaoh to see.
“Ah, what an obvious trick. I’m almost disappointed.”
Although Cass could no longer see Lord Pharaoh’s face—to her naked eye, he was invisible again—if she craned her neck she could see his reflection through the lens of the monocle. Despite his dismissive words, he was gazing steadily at his own image. The homunculus had been right about him. Lord Pharaoh was very vain. Even as a ghost.
“Here in your time, I would be over five hundred years old. And yet I look like a young man, do I not?”
Cass thought he looked like an old snake, but she didn’t think it necessary to say so. “Definitely. I’ve never seen anybody with eyes like yours.” (That last part was true at least.)
“Oh, don’t try to flatter me,” said Lord Pharaoh, but you could tell he was pleased.
Cass had to think quickly. She had only two potential weapons on hand: the monocle and the lodestone. Given the choice, of course, there was one she would much prefer to keep: the one that would lead her to the Secret.
“Now watch this—if you pull the monocle farther away from your eye, it kind of catches the light,” she said, improvising.
“What are you showing me?” asked Lord Pharaoh, irritated to have his reflection pulled away from him.
“Just keep looking at your reflection—”
In one motion, Cass grabbed the lodestone with her left hand while reaching back and then forward with her right, throwing the monocle as hard as she could in the direction, she hoped, of his forehead.
From her vantage point, it looked as though the monocle stopped in midair. “Ow—what are you doing, you little rat?!”
Lord Pharaoh caught the monocle as it dropped.
It stopped him for only a second. But it was enough time for her to start running.

Glob was fine—once Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji had given him a few handfuls of trail mix, that is. He’d been hiding in the cave for over two hours, terrified but safe.
“Is it just ’cause I’m so hungry, or is this really good?” asked Glob, his mouth full of Cass’s trademark combination of chocolate chips, peanut-butter chips, potato chips, and banana chips (and no raisins ever). “I usually hate trail mix. It’s so… healthy.”
“Don’t worry, Cass’s isn’t very healthy,” said Max-Ernest. “Everything in it’s either fried or has sugar.”
“Oh good. That makes me feel better,” said Glob, taking another handful. “I wonder if Cass would want to sell bags of it through my blog. Or maybe she would license the recipe? I know a lot of really good marketing people. It’s all about branding. And with my reader base—”
“I doubt it, but you could always ask,” said Max-Ernest, cutting him off. Yo-Yoji held up his hand. “Quiet, dudes. Listen. I think that’s her….”
A second later, they heard Cass screaming their names. “Max-Ernest! Yo-Yoji! Where are you?!”

They pulled themselves out of the cave just in time to see Cass running toward them. Behind her was an apparently empty suit of armor, running after her like a horseless Headless Horseman.
“Whoa—,” said Glob.
“Come on, help me break this off,” said Yo-Yoji, grabbing a tree branch roughly the size of a knight’s lance.
Together, the three boys pulled the branch until it snapped, throwing Glob to the ground. “Ow!”
“Are you going to fight him again?” asked Max-Ernest. “You’re crazy.”
Yo-Yoji was about to argue, then said, “You’re right, I just got a better idea. Both of you, get out of sight.”
As the other two boys moved away from the trail, Yo-Yoji crouched behind a bush. As soon as Cass had run by, the sound of Lord Pharaoh’s heavy steel boots could be heard. Yo-Yoji thrust the branch out across the trail, wedging it against a rock on the other side. He held it with both hands about a foot above the ground. He was counting on Lord Pharaoh’s eyes being on Cass—and they were. Lord Pharaoh’s steel-clad shin rammed into the branch, and he fell forward just as Yo-Yoji had hoped. Yo-Yoji simultaneously pulled up on the branch, forcing Lord Pharaoh’s legs into the air and his invisible head to the ground.
“Now, run!” Yo-Yoji shouted to the others as he started booking it.
Glob and Max-Ernest scrambled back onto the trail, then started running as fast they could. Cass was waiting just ahead. With Cass and Yo-Yoji taking turns pulling Glob along, they all ran back toward the Renaissance Faire, stopping only when they’d reached the other side of the dry riverbed. Looking back, none of them could see Lord Pharaoh. But of course that didn’t mean he wasn’t there.
Cass felt the familiar chill. She was sure that he was watching them. And that sooner or later she’d be meeting Lord Pharaoh again.
“Come on, let’s go,” said Cass.
They didn’t stop running again until they reached the school bus.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
THE LODESTONE

Good sirs, m’lady, how many in your party tonight?”
The three young Terces Society members had hoped to get to work immediately cracking the mystery of the lodestone, but Glob had absolutely insisted that they join him at Medieval Days Restaurant that evening. As it turned out, he had a more than sufficient number of coupons stashed in his pockets to cover dinner for a dozen people. And a good thing, too, because there were six Nuts Table regulars sitting at the Round Table at Medieval Days (one of the Round Tables, I should say): Cass, Max-Ernest, Yo-Yoji, Benjamin, Glob, and Daniel-not-Danielle (who had been so happy at the news of Glob’s safe return that he’d begged his father to take him to dinner). Seven if you count Max-Ernest’s baby brother, PC (but since he was too young to sit in a high chair, the “serving wench” said not to count him). And eleven if you counted the four parent chaperones who, it was agreed by all, would sit at their own table farther away from the jousting stage and all the mayhem and who, of course, were not Nuts Table regulars in the first place.
Needless to say, Medieval Days was not an easy place to concentrate. The combination of clattering dishes, screaming children, and jousting knights made it difficult to hold a conversation, let alone to study a five-hundred-year-old object for clues about an ancient Egyptian secret. Not that they could have spoken very freely with Glob and Daniel-not-Danielle present anyway.
None of that stopped Max-Ernest from surreptitiously examining the lodestone under their table. Alas, he was no more able to find a secret message written on it than Lord Pharaoh had been. When PC started grabbing the lodestone, Max-Ernest gave up and passed it under the table to Cass, silently communicating with her that they would examine it again later.
OK, she tried silently to communicate back—but remember we have to return the lodestone to Mrs. Johnson tomorrow. We don’t have very much time.
In the end, the tired kids had little choice but to focus on the food and the entertainment. The hamburgers, everybody agreed, were terrible—although Glob wolfed his down anyway, just in case the management was looking. As for the joust, it was vastly inferior to what they’d seen earlier in the day. Yo-Yoji, Glob asserted, would have annihilated all the so-called knights at the restaurant.
“Thanks, bro,” said Yo-Yoji, figuring anybody who helped them catch Lord Pharaoh, even unwittingly, deserved bro status.
“By the way, Cass, Glob has some really good ideas about marketing your trail mix,” said Max-Ernest, perhaps thinking the same thing.
“Oh, that’s great,” said Cass with a notable lack of enthusiasm.
Daniel-not-Danielle smiled at her from behind his dreadlocks. Don’t worry, he seemed to be saying, Glob will be on to his next scheme tomorrow and will forget all about your trail mix.

Late that night, Max-Ernest called Cass to tell her he’d had an inspiration and that he was on his way over to her house with PC in tow. (One advantage of his parents’ newfound total lack of interest in him was that he could come and go as he pleased.)

She waited by the front door so she could let in Max-Ernest and his baby brother without waking her mom. When they got up to her room, Max-Ernest laid PC on Cass's bed, then pulled a toy out of his pocket. It consisted of a yellow cardboard rectangle laminated in plastic. It was about the size of a small book and said HAIRY BARRY on top. In the middle was a bald, barefaced smiling man. At the bottom was a layer of what looked like black dust.
Cass looked at it askance. "This is what you had to show me? HAIRY BARRY?"
"It's a game. You're supposed to put his hair back on him. Watch- "
Max-Ernest removed the small metal bar from the slot on the side and proceeded to drag it across the plastic. Black dust rose from the bottom of the picture and settled in a ragged line under the man's nose.
"After hearing all about magnets from Pietro and Mrs. Johnson, I sent away for all these magnet magic tricks," Max-Ernest explained. "This one came today."
"Great. But I think PC is about to destroy your mustache."
"That's not the point,"  said Max-Ernest,  pulling HAIRY  BARRY  out of  the baby's hand. "Get me a plate and scissors."
When Cass returned with the requested items, Max-Ernest cut a corner off the toy and poured
all the magnetic filings onto the plate. "Now give me the lodestone."
"OK, but all the dust is going to go flying onto it." "I know, that's what I want."
In order to retrieve the lodestone from her backpack, Cass had to separate it from a compass, a flashlight, and a Swiss Army knife; but after a moderate amount of exertion, she handed it to Max-Ernest.
As soon as he brought the lodestone within three feet of the magnetic dust, the dust started streaming through the air toward it. Within seconds, the lodestonewas entirely covered.
" Nice," said Cass. " Now it looks like a big furry bug."
"Patience, Watson," said Max-Ernest, brushing some of the magnetic dust off the back side of the lodestone. "I noticed the silver on the back of the lodestone was a little thicker than you might expect, but not that heavy. So I thought, what if there's another layer inside... ? And guess what-I don't know if it's wood or wax or stone or what, but whatever it is, it blocks the magnet."
Grinning, Max-Ernest turned the lodestone so that the silver  back now faced Cass. "How ' bout that?"
"Very cool. But don't call me Watson."
Most of the silver was covered with the magnetic dust. But where the lodestone's magnetic power had been blocked, small letters had emerged. Cass's ears tingled as she read:
  
AS ABOVE,
SO BELOW

It was as if the Jester were right there in the room with them.

As thrilling as it was to see the lodestone’s secret message revealed, by the next morning when they delivered the lodestone to the principal’s office, Cass’s excitement had waned. After all, the message was one she’d already heard several times from the fortune-teller. Coming from the Jester, the meaning seemed even more obscure.
Max-Ernest, however, would not be deterred. “It’s not necessarily supposed to be the Secret itself—just like a clue or message, you said, right?”
For the next twenty-four hours or so, he devoted himself to trying to decipher potential meanings and permutations of the words AS ABOVE, SO BELOW. He reported back that they were the first words of the Emerald Tablet, supposedly one of the founding documents of alchemy.
Cass couldn’t help feeling Max-Ernest was looking in the wrong direction. She knew the Jester. Unless his interests had changed radically as he got older, he wasn’t particularly interested in alchemy or anything else very serious.
“Well, he obviously knew about it or he wouldn’t have written that,” said Max-Ernest, slightly peeved. “So what direction do you think I should be looking in?”
“Just think about it like, well, like the Jester liked the kind of stuff you like.” “Oh yeah? What stuff is that?” asked Max-Ernest.
“You know, magic, jokes, puns, codes, whatever.”
“Alchemy has all of that stuff. For example, I was just reading that—” “Oh, never mind. Forget I said anything.”
And they left it at that. For the moment.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
THE TRUNK

For Cass and Max-Ernest, a rainy Sunday afternoon almost always meant tea at the fire station. And so it was that they found themselves at Cass’s grandfathers’ kitchen table one rainy Sunday afternoon a few weeks later.
By now their tea was cold, and all the best chocolate-chip cookies eaten. (For Cass, best meant chewiest; for Max-Ernest, it meant chocolatiest.) After regaling them with a war story that everyone present knew to be entirely made up, Grandpa Larry excused himself to “go catch up on some work”—an activity that everyone knew was code for a nap. Grandpa Wayne said he was going to tinker with the old record player he’d purchased at a garage sale that morning—an activity that, everyone knew, could go on for hours or days or, as in the case of one old eight-track tape player, years and years.
Cass and Max-Ernest, meanwhile, were both reluctant to go home, as it would have meant stepping out into the rain. Cass sipped her cold tea and regarded her uncharacteristically quiet friend. With Yo-Yoji back at home, his parents returned, and with Pietro and the other Terces members keeping their distance, still hoping Cass would crack the mystery of the Secret, it felt to Cass very much like the beginning of their friendship, when it was just her and Max-Ernest.
“What are you thinking about?” she asked. “Nothing…”
“Nothing? There’s never been a second of your life when you were thinking about nothing.
You have more thoughts than anybody I know.” “That’s what Benjamin said.”
“So…?”
“So what?”
“So what were you thinking?”
“I guess I was just thinking about that time I looked through the Double Monocle…. But I wasn’t really thinking anything about it,” Max-Ernest added quickly.
“You mean at the hospital? You said you just saw yourself in the mirror….” “Yeah, that’s kind of right.”
“What else did you see?” Cass could tell there was something he wasn’t telling her. “Just myself…”
“But…”
“But it was the future. I was old.”
“Really? That must have been weird.” A year ago, Cass might have assumed he was making this up, but having seen so many unexpected things in the monocle herself, she didn’t question the truth of what he said.
“Yeah. Really weird.”
“So what did you look like?” “Crazy.”
“Seriously, what were you? I mean, what are you going to be? A stand-up comedian?” “I don’t think so—I was sitting down, and I wasn’t exactly telling jokes.”
“A magician?”
“No, at least it didn’t look like it.” “What were you doing, then?” “Not much.”
“You must have been doing something.”
“Well, I was… writing,” said Max-Ernest reluctantly. “Writing?” Cass repeated in surprise.
“Yeah, I think I’m going to be a writer. Can you believe that?” “What’s wrong with being a writer? You like books.” “Nothing, I guess—I don’t want to talk about it.”
“Why, what were you writing?”
Max-Ernest shook his head in disgust. “I’m not sure. It looked like a novel. But it sounded more like the ravings of a lunatic.”
“So you could read it—through the mirror?” “Just a little bit.”
“Well…?”
Max-Ernest shook his head.
“Come on. You have to tell me. You tell me everything.”
“The only words I remember are, ‘I can’t keep a secret. Never could…’” Cass laughed. “Well, that’s true!”
“And then—wait, promise me you won’t get upset.” “How can I promise that?”
“I swore I wasn’t going to tell you this—but I saw our names,” said Max-Ernest, speaking in a rush now. “Well, they weren’t really our names, but I could tell they were stand-ins for our names. Like mine was Max-Ernest instead of Xxx-Xxxxxx and yours was Cass instead of Xxxx.”
Cass was appalled. “You were writing about us?!”
“Don’t get mad at me—I haven’t done it yet!” said Max-Ernest, already regretting his words. “Yeah, but you’re going to. That’s worse.”
“Why? What’s so terrible about writing about us?”
“It means I can’t trust you ever again. How can I even talk to you knowing that what I say might wind up in a book one day?”
Max-Ernest put his head in his hands. Why couldn’t he ever keep anything to himself?

Rrrring. Rrrring.
It was the fire station’s doorbell—i.e., the old fire alarm. It didn’t ring very often but when it did, it was so loud the whole place seemed to shake.
Sebastian, Cass’s grandfathers’ old ailing and blind basset hound, gave a halfhearted bark, his voice no longer competition for the doorbell.
“Can you get it, Cass?” Grandpa Wayne called from down below. Unlike Grandpa Larry, who was asleep or at least pretending to be, Wayne was not what is known as a people person. If Cass was around to get the door, he always asked her to do it.
She and Max-Ernest slid down the fire pole and made their way through the maze of boxes that filled the bottom floor of the fire station. Cass patted Sebastian, who was already back to sleep on his pillow. Then she opened the door.

A postman stood on the front stoop. "Is there a Cassandra here?" he asked. "Yeah, that's me...."
The postman smiled wide. "Well, then I believe this is for you-"
He gestured toward the big old trunk at his feet. "It was in the back of our storage room.
Been there for forty or fifty years at least."
Cass and Max-Ernest stared at the trunk. It was unusual-looking to say the least. For one thing, you could barely see it: there were stamps and stickers and receipts covering nearly every inch of its surface. They bore the names of cities and countries, trains and steamships, all sorts of ports of call. They were written in dozens of languages and gave dozens of conflicting instructions. It looked as though the trunk had traveled the world many times over-and had been doing so for centuries.  

SPECIAL DELIVERY 
HANDLE WITH CARE

THIS WAY UP

THAT WAY DOWN

FRAGILE
WARNING:
COMBUSTIBLE

LONDON	

Buenos Aires

THE AMERICAN COLONIES

PORTUGAL

WEST INDIES

PRUSSIA

TUCSON

SRI LANKA

NEW AMSTERDAM

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY

OTRANTO

CAMEROON

Newfoundland

SAN FRANCISCO

SICILY

TOGO

BRAZIL

WEST INDIES


"They're shutting down our post office, what with all the cutbacks these days, and somebody was about to have it hauled away," the postman continued. "Then I noticed this old tag- "
He fingered a cracked and worn leather tag affixed to the top of the tnmk. It looked so old it was a wonder it hadn't disintegrated altogether.

To: Cassandra   
For delivery in the year 20XX
The Fire Station

At the bottom was the name of her town.
“I figured you’d be much older, seeing as the tag was written so many years ago. But by the looks of it, you weren’t even alive yet! You have any idea how somebody could have known you’d be here so long ago? A mother or grandmother with the same name maybe…?”
Cass shook her head. Over the years, many unusual things had been left on her grandfathers’ doorstep. Their antique store was like the neighborhood attic (or maybe the town dump). A taxidermic moose. A broken unicycle. A life-size portrait of Elvis. Most memorably, of course, Cass herself had been left on their doorstep, a newborn baby in a cardboard box. But never before had an item arrived that seemed so accurately to predict the future. It was certainly mysterious.
“Well, all I can say is, this beauty’s been around. Here’s the manifest, if you want to look at it,” said the postman. He started unrolling what looked like a long scroll with many attached pages. The most recent sections were typewritten, the older handwritten. Some of the oldest bore royal crests and wax seals.
“It took me an hour just to read through it. Can you believe this trunk has traveled to all seven continents, including Antarctica? It’s been on Spanish galleons… warships. It was even on the Mayflower…. It’s been in museum collections… royal treasuries… And guess what, as far as I can tell, nobody’s ever opened it—not even once!”
He looked at Cass and Max-Ernest, waiting for a reaction. Cass didn’t say anything. She was thinking too hard. “Wow” was all Max-Ernest could manage.
The postman laughed. “I guess that means you won’t be opening it in front of me, huh?
Shucks. Can’t blame a guy for hoping…. Well, just sign right here and I’ll be on my way.” He pointed to the top of the manifest and handed Cass a pen.
“And you be careful now. Never know, there might be some old bones in there. Old trunk like that, it could be cursed!”

New loot, especially new old loot, usually proved irresistible to Cass’s grandfathers. But Wayne was so absorbed in his record player, and Larry so fast asleep, that neither came running when Cass and Max-Ernest hauled the trunk inside. The two young people were free to put their considerable detective skills to work on the trunk, uninhibited by the older men.
“I wonder how old it is,” said Max-Ernest. “It seems like that tag with your name on it was there from the beginning. How ’bout that?”
“I think it’s about five hundred years old, actually,” said Cass, her ears tingling with excitement.
She had just recognized the trunk. Underneath the layers of paper and grime, the trunk in front of her was the bandits’ treasure chest. She remembered the large brass lock that resembled a coat of arms. One of the bandits had broken the lock with his axe. If nobody had opened the trunk in the years since, somebody must have rebuilt the lock—and reinforced it many times over.
“It’s from the Jester—it has to be,” she said, lowering her voice so her grandfathers wouldn’t hear. “I told him the fire station didn’t exist yet—I mean, in his time. He must have left instructions for it to circle around the world until closer to our time.”
Together they examined the brass lock. It had an intricate pattern of diamonds and fleur de lis etched into it, but the basic design was simple. What had looked to Cass like a coat of arms was in fact four circles inside a square. On closer inspection, each of the four circles turned out to be a movable dial, two on top, two below. Each dial was marked with all twenty-six letters of the alphabet.
"It's obviously some kind of early combination lock," said Max-Ernest. "But I've never seen a quadruple one like this."
"It looks like we only have to pick four letters. That shouldn' t be so hard." "Oh yeah? You want to try all 456,976 different combinations?"
"There can' t be that many."
"Wanna bet? Put it in a calculator. Twenty-six times twenty-six times twenty-six times twenty-six".
"All right. You made your point. So we have to narrow it down."
"You know the Jester. What letters would he put? Like names of his kids or something". "He didn't have any kids yet when I knew him."
"Well, anybody else? Think of it like we're trying to find the password for his computer". "There was Anastasia. But that's too many letters."
"How about your name? That has four letters. At least your nickname does." They tried it every way they could:
  
 C A	C S	A S
 S S	A S 	C S 
  
And so on.
None of the variations worked, but Max-Ernest noticed the faintest of faint clicks when he tried A and S as the top two letters.
"I think the A and S on top might be right," he said excitedly. "Can you think of anything they might stand for? Maybe A is Anastasia and the other letters are for other people?"
They tried a few letters at random; predictably, they did not work. Then Max-Ernest noticed the time. He was late to relieve PC's babysitter-his father.
"I really don't like to go into overtime," Max-Ernest explained, heading out the door. "Then I feel like I have to pay them more. Plus, it's just sort of disrespectful of the babysitter's time."
"Your dad is not a babysitter," Cass protested. "He's your dad. And PC's dad!"
Max-Ernest shook his head. "One day you'll understand. Life is different when you have a kid."

Cass watched the door close behind him, feeling bereft. She very much wanted to open the trunk before her grandfathers saw it, but she couldn't imagine finding the right combination without Max-Ernest's expert code-cracking help.
Well, there was always the possibility he would call with another inspiration when he got home, like he did with the lodestone.
The lodestone! That's it, she thought. The lodestone is the key.

AS ABOVE, SO BELOW.
Max-Ernest was always telling her you had to read clues in different ways. Sometimes secret messages were more about language than anything else. And she suspected that was the case  now. She'd been right about the Jester; for him, AS ABOVE, SO BELOW didn't have any deep meaning. It wasn't about alchemy. It was about the words: the word AS above the word SO.
Trying to keep her hand steady, she turned the bottom two dials to the correct letters.

A S
S O  

For a moment, it seemed like this combination didn't work, either. But that was only because the chest hadn't been opened in so long. Eventually, the latch released-and she was able to lift the lid.

Treasure.
It was the last thing she'd seen in the chest; it was the last thing she'd expected to see again. And yet there it was. The coins and jewels, the goblets and candlesticks, they glistened and gleamed just as they had when the homunculus first lifted the tarp to show her the bandits' hoard.
Of course, there wasn't nearly as much now. The bandits had given most of their bounty to the poor, but there was still plenty. Cass would be wealthy beyond measure-if she kept it all, that is. (Already, in her head, she was pushing aside thoughts of expensive vacations and fancy cars and thinking instead of the causes that she could donate her riches to: the environment, disaster preparedness, child slavery... not to mention the Terces Society.) Cass was pleased, thrilled even, that the Jester and Anastasia cared enough for her to leave her their fortune. At the same time, she felt oddly disappointed. Was this all there was to the Secret? Gold? The treasure made her feel a little like a bandit herself.
She dug down into the chest. Perhaps she would find a note at the bottom. Or some other object that contained a clue about the Secret. She experienced a momentary spark of hope when she spied a corner of what looked like a piece of yellowing paper. But when she pulled it out, she found not an ancient Egyptian papyrus but a familiar parchment scroll.
Cass unrolled it to reveal a crude sketch of a girl with pointy ears-her self-portrait. She looked wistfully at the drawing, thinking that Anastasia must have left it for her to find. Cass had traveled into the distant past in part to find out who her biological parents were. The Jester had been right: the quest made no sense, chronologically speaking. But in meeting the Jester and Anastasia, perhaps she had found the roots she was looking for anyway.

"I have a present for you," said Cass to her mother later that night when they were together in their kitchen.
She pulled her now-flattened self-portrait out of a folder in her backpack and handed it over.
Her mother smiled in delighted surprise. "Cass! Did you draw this?"

Cass shrugged. "I guess, I mean, if you could call it drawing. It's more like a scribble." "Thank you. I don't remember the last time you gave me a drawing that you did. Probably when you were six years old. This is wonderful!"
"No, it's not. You don't have to say that," said Cass, embarrassed and already half regretting the gift.
"I know I don't. I'm saying it because it's true. It's very expressive and I think it captures the essence of you... although of course you're much prettier!" "You don't have to say that, either."
Melanie shook her head. "What am I going to do with you, Cassandra? It's a very important skill to know how to accept a compliment."
"Oh well, I guess I'm not very skillful, then."
"Terrific- now I'm insulting you?" Melanie held Cass's drawing up to the light. "This paper looks so old. Almost like parchment. Did they give it to you at school?"
"No... I found it at the fire station," said Cass, semi-accurately. "I don't think Larry and Wayne even knew it was there."
"Well, I'm sure they would be glad to see it used so well.... What's this tiny little scrap of paper glued to the other side?" asked Melanie, turning the parchment over. "See here at the bottom. I think there's something written on it. It almost looks like hieroglyphics-"
"Let me have that-!"
Cass snatched the drawing out of her mother's hand.
"I just decided, I have to take the drawing back," she said, not yet daring to look at it. "It's, um... I just don't think it's finished yet and I'm afraid you're going to put it up or something. Sorry."
Leaving the flabbergasted Melanie alone in the kitchen, Cass flew up the stairs to her bedroom and slammed the door shut
"Cass, what did I do?" her mother shouted from downstairs.
"Nothing! I love you, Mom!" Cass shouted back. Then she locked her bedroom door for good measure.

Her hand trembling, Cass turned the parchment over.
Sure enough, there was a little scrap of rough woven paper stuck to the bottom of the page. Cass was certain this was it-the papyrus on which the Secret was written. There was only one problem. The papyrus was rapidly turning to dust.

THE END

APPENDICES*

YO-YOJI E-MAIL #1 (from here)

Dude, just letting u know i will be offline for a wk. Camping w the ’rents on Mt Fuji so dad can finish that pollution study frum last yr. You know the rule—no electronic nothing in nature. (Not even music!!! Aaargh—Suckage!) Will check u out soon as I’m back. Hope Cass ok by then.

YO-YOJI E-MAIL #2 (from here)

Listen, Bro, u r being played harder than an air guitar in front of my bathroom mirror… Just got back from Fuji and saw yr e-mail about Benjamin. Sounded so random, the way he changed, so I did a little name search. Nohting… But then I looked up that school he went to, and guess who’s “head of school” at New Promethean… A guy named… drum roll, please… Luciano Bergamo. Uh-huh. Dr. Freakin’ L!!! Yep, Benjamin’s school was run by Midnight Sun! Dunno what it means… Spy??? Definitely NOT GOOD. Alert alert alert! Plz tell me when u get this so I can relax and go back to building game levels.

POPULAR WAYS TO DISGUISE YOUR BOOK

The Secret Series is meant to be secret! If you must carry your book in public, please disguise it first.

Groucho

Unknown Comic

Burglar

Ghost

Elvis


HOW TO BUILD YOUR OWN CAMERA OBSCURA

The camera obscura that Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji visited at the Renaissance Faire was so large, their entire class could fit inside, but you can also make a camera obscura small enough to fit in your hands.

What you'll need:

A small cardboard box-It should be about the size of a shoe box, but it should be a traditional brown corrugated box with four flaps on top rather than a lid.

Tracing paper-or some similar translucent paper, like vellum

Black tape-or other dark-colored tape

A medium- to large-size nail- as in hammer and nail, not fingernail

A blanket or large towel-a wizard's cape or spare toga would also work

To make the camera obscura:

Tape up the bottom side of the box-including the middle and the corners-so no light can get through the cracks.

Then take the nail and poke a hole in the exact center of the bottom of the box. The hole should be just big enough to let light through, and the edges of the hole should be as clean and round as possible. This hole is your aperture-a fancy word that means opening.

Now set the box upright so the bottom is the bottom again.

OK, this is the trickiest part. Notice that the top of the box has four flaps: two larger outer flaps, and two smaller inner flaps. Open the larger flaps and close the smaller flaps. Then tape the sides of the smaller flaps to the bottom edges of the larger flaps so that the smaller flaps stay flat (level with the top of the box), and so no light gets through.

You should now have a box that is completely sealed except for one rectangular opening.

Cut a piece of tracing paper a little larger than the opening and tape it over the opening, keeping the tracing paper as smooth and taut as possible. This is going to be the "screen" of your camera obscura.

Construction is finished.

To use your camera obscura, you should be standing indoors and facing a bright window. Throw your towel, blanket, or cape over your head. Then hold the camera obscura in front of your face with the "screen" facing you and with the open flaps to either side. The aperture should not be covered by the blanket. But all the sides of the camera obscura should be. You don't want to see any light except what you see in your viewing screen.

On your screen, you should now be seeing an image of the window you're standing in front of. The image will be upside down. Wave your hand in front of the aperture: your hand will seem to wave in the opposite direction. Do not try to walk at the same time.
ONE-WAY STARING CONTEST*

SECRET SERIES F.A.Q.
AKA Frequently Annoying Questions… Oh sorry, I meant Frequently Asked Questions Q: Why?
A: Just why? You mean like why the Secret Series?

Q: Yeah.

A: Why not? (You knew that’s how I’d answer, didn’t you?)

Q: OK, then, here’s a real question. Why do the Midnight Sun members wear gloves? Is it simply a sign of membership, like a badge or a Scout patch?

A: No, they wear gloves because otherwise their hands will reveal their true age. For some as yet unknown reason, their powerful rejuvenating elixirs (which keep them alive for hundreds of years) do not work on their hands. Incidentally, this is why very young Midnight Sun members have no need to wear gloves.

Q: Is everything you write true? Did it really happen?

A: Yes. Well, no! I mean, I’m sorry, I can’t answer that. Just remember—all the names have been changed. For more information, I’m going to have to insist you speak to my lawyer.

Q: Could you ever be friends with somebody who didn’t like chocolate? 
A: No. Well, maybe, if they gave me chocolate anyway. A lot of chocolate. 

Q: Do you ever read your books after you write them?
A: Are you kidding? Don’t you think they’d be a little different if I did?

Q: What is the Secret?
A: I believe you’ve asked me that before.

Q: Why won’t you tell us the Secret?
A: Have you bothered to look up the word in the dictionary?


Q: I thought you said you couldn’t keep a secret.
A: OK, you got me.

Q: Admit it, you don’t really know the Secret.
A: A, that’s not a question. B, I wouldn’t tell you if I did.

Q: I hate you.
A: The feeling is mutual, I assure you.

Q: I don’t really hate you. I just want to know the Secret.
A: Then you’ll just have to read the next book, won’t you?

Q: Can’t you give me a hint?
A: Platypus.

Q: That’s the hint? Platypus?
Q: No. I just thought it sounded funny.

Q: I take it back. I do hate you.
A: I know.

*A MANIFESTO IS NOT A FIESTA FOR A MAN. IN FACT, IT IS NOT A FIESTA OF ANY KIND. IT IS NOT EVEN A FIESTO. RATHER, IT IS A STATEMENT OF PRINCIPLES. USUALLY POLITICAL OR ARTISTIC PRINCIPLES. BUT YOU COULD WRITE A MANIFESTO ABOUT ANYTHING. FOR INSTANCE, CHOCOLATE OR CHEESE. A PSEUDO-MANIFESTO IS EITHER A FAKE MANIFESTO OR A MANIFESTO WRITTEN BY PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH. SO PERHAPS I SHOULD HAVE CALLED IT A PSEUDO-PSEUDO-MANIFESTO. BEFORE READING FURTHER, WHY NOT WRITE YOUR OWN MANIFESTO? THEN YOU CAN SEE HOW MANY WAYS MY BOOK FAILS TO MEASURE UP TO YOUR IDEAS ABOUT THE WAY THINGS SHOULD BE. JUST DON’T TELL ME ABOUT IT.

*ALWAYS CONNECT TO WHAT YOU’RE CLIMBING WITH AT LEAST TWO FEET AND ONE HAND OR TWO HANDS AND ONE FOOT. YOU MIGHT REMEMBER THIS HELPFUL RULE FROM A HIGHLY EDUCATIONAL AND FRANKLY RATHER BRILLIANT BOOK CALLED IF YOU’RE READING THIS, IT’S TOO LATE.

*THIS WAS A DISTINCTION THAT MAX-ERNEST—WHO’D ALWAYS WANTED TO BE LAUGHED WITH, BUT WHO WAS FAR MORE OFTEN LAUGHED AT—WAS ONLY TOO AWARE OF.

*IF YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT A STOOL SAMPLE IS, PLEASE ASK SOMEBODY ELSE. I’D RATHER NOT HAVE TO EXPLAIN IT MYSELF—IT’S TOO DISTASTEFUL A SUBJECT.

*ANOTHER DISTINCTION THAT MAX-ERNEST, WHO’D ALWAYS LONGED TO BE FUNNY FUNNY BUT WHO WAS MOST OFTEN FUNNY WEIRD, KNEW ONLY TOO WELL.

*THOSE WEREN’T ACTUALLY THE WORDS IN MAX-ERNEST’S HEAD—I’M AFRAID I GOT A LITTLE CARRIED AWAY—BUT I CAN PROMISE YOU THEY GIVE A SENSE OF WHAT HE FELT.

*AGAIN I MUST APOLOGIZE FOR PUTTING WORDS IN MAX-ERNEST’S HEAD—AND FOR WAXING POETICAL (RATHER THAN PHILOSOPHICAL) AT SUCH A SERIOUS TIME. IT’S JUST THAT CHOCOLATE MAKES ME WANT TO RHYME. (GET IT—TIME, RHYME? OH NEVER MIME.)

*I TELL THE STORY OF CASS AND SEÑOR HUGO IN MUCH GREATER DETAIL IN MY LAST BOOK, THIS BOOK IS NOT GOOD FOR YOU. BUT IF YOU HAVEN’T READ THAT BOOK, I’D ADVISE AGAINST IT. AS IT HAPPENS, THE TITLE IS SOMETHING OF AN UNDERSTATEMENT. I HAD ORIGINALLY AND MORE ACCURATELY CALLED IT THIS BOOK IS ABSOLUTELY TERRIBLE FOR YOU, BUT MY PUBLISHERS WERE AFRAID THE TITLE WOULD SCARE READERS AWAY. THEY WANTED TO CALL IT THIS BOOK IS GOOD FOR YOU. I WAS ONLY ABLE TO SLIP IN THE NOT AT THE LAST MOMENT WHEN THEY WEREN’T LOOKING.

*IN CASE YOU DON’T REMEMBER THE FIRST WORD OF YO-YOJI’S BAND NAME (IT DOES APPEAR LATER IN THIS BOOK) OR IN CASE YOU’RE THE LAZY TYPE, THE DECODED E-MAIL IS INCLUDED IN THE APPENDIX. AS FOR HOW TO DECODE A KEYWORD CODE GENERALLY, YOU’LL FIND INSTRUCTIONS AT THE END OF MY FIRST BOOK. AND IF YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT THAT BOOK IS CALLED, WELL, YOU’RE NOT ALONE.

*AS YOU MIGHT GUESS FROM THEIR ATTIRE, A FOP IS A FASHIONABLE YOUNG MAN—SOME WOULD SAY TOO FASHIONABLE, BUT I SAY THERE IS NO SUCH THING.

*A JESTER’S OUTFIT, BY THE WAY, IS KNOWN AS A MOTLEY BECAUSE IT IS SUCH A MOTLEY MIX OF COLORS AND DESIGNS.

*THIS IS WHAT IS KNOWN AS THE SCIENCE OF DENDROCHRONOLOGY. BUT OF COURSE YOU KNEW THAT ALREADY.

*WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO CASS, I’VE NEVER UNDERSTOOD THE REASONING BEHIND THE EXPRESSION “ONLY IN YOUR HEAD.” AFTER ALL, SOMETHING CAN BE LOCATED IN YOUR HEAD AND NEVERTHELESS BE REAL. YOUR BRAIN, FOR INSTANCE, IS INSIDE YOUR HEAD. (UNLESS YOU’RE COMPLETELY BRAINLESS.)

*BY TRICK, MYRTLE HERE DOES NOT MEAN A CARD TRICK OR MAGIC TRICK. SHE DOESN’T EVEN MEAN THE KIND OF TRICK YOU PLAY REGULARLY ON THE BULLIES AT SCHOOL. (AT LEAST I HOPE YOU DO.) RATHER, IN TRICK-TAKING CARD GAMES LIKE BRIDGE, SPADES, HEARTS, AND PINOCHLE, A TRICK REFERS TO A SINGLE ROUND OF CARDS.

*IF YOU HAVE NOT READ “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE,” YOU CAN FIND IT IN MY SECOND BOOK, IF YOU’RE READING THIS, IT’S TOO LATE. ONE WORD OF CAUTION: AS MR. WALLACE, THE TERCES SOCIETY ARCHIVIST, POINTS OUT IN THE BOOK, “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE” WAS WRITTEN BY SOMEONE WITH LITERARY ASPIRATIONS. THAT IS TO SAY, HE MAY HAVE TAKEN LITERARY LICENSE, EMBELLISHING FACTS OR PERHAPS EVEN MAKING UP THINGS ALTOGETHER. YOU SHOULD READ IT WITH A GRAIN OF SALT—IN OTHER WORDS, AS YOU SHOULD ANY SHORT STORY OR NOVEL (EXCEPTING THIS ONE!).

*THE DIFFERENCE, AS MAX-ERNEST WOULD HAVE TOLD HER, IS THAT A PALACE IS A LUXURY RESIDENCE, DESIGNED TO COMFORT ROYALTY AND TO IMPRESS VISITORS; A CASTLE IS A FORTIFIED STRUCTURE BUILT TO WITHSTAND ENEMY ATTACK.

*OOPS. I BELIEVE I JUST LET SLIP THAT OUR HEROES’ SCHOOL WAS A MAGNET SCHOOL. OR RATHER, MRS. JOHNSON DID. OH WELL. TOO LATE. THAT PARTICULAR CAT IS OUT OF THE PROVERBIAL BAG….YOU PROBABLY KNOW WHAT A MAGNET SCHOOL IS. PERHAPS YOU ATTEND ONE YOURSELF? A MAGNET SCHOOL IS DESIGNED TO ATTRACT STUDENTS FROM ALL OVER A SCHOOL DISTRICT WHO MIGHT NOT OTHERWISE GO TO SCHOOL TOGETHER; THIS IS WHAT IS KNOWN AS DIVERSITY. TO ACHIEVE THIS GOAL, MOST MAGNET SCHOOLS SPECIALIZE IN A CERTAIN SUBJECT. BUT OUR HEROES’ SCHOOL WASN’T AN ART MAGNET OR A SCIENCE MAGNET OR A SPORTS MAGNET. IT WAS JUST A MAGNET—OR AS MAX-ERNEST CALLED IT, A MAGNET MAGNET. FOR YEARS, MRS. JOHNSON HAD BEEN TRYING TO COME UP WITH A MORE SPECIFIC MISSION FOR THE SCHOOL. AS THE PRINCIPAL WITH PRINCIPLES, HER FAVORITE IDEA WAS THAT THE SCHOOL BE A MANNERS MAGNET. BUT THE STUDENTS DISLIKED THIS IDEA SO MUCH THAT THEY REBELLED WITH A “MANNERS BOYCOTT.” YOU CAN IMAGINE WHAT THAT WAS LIKE. IT QUICKLY BECAME KNOWN AS THE REVOLTING REVOLT BECAUSE OF ALL THE BURPING, NOSE PICKING, MOUTH-FULL-OF-FOOD OPENING, AND, I’M SORRY TO REPORT, FARTING. MRS. JOHNSON GAVE IN VERY QUICKLY.

*I’M AFRAID I’M NOT SURE WHICH OF THESE DOG SOUNDS IS EXACTLY RIGHT. YOU WILL HAVE TO CHOOSE THE ONE YOU LIKE BEST. WHILE IT IS DIFFICULT TO RE-CREATE DIALOGUE THAT TOOK PLACE HUNDREDS OF YEARS AGO, IT IS PERHAPS MORE DIFFICULT TO RE-CREATE THE SPEECH OF ANIMALS… FROM ANY ERA. DID YOU KNOW THAT IN ALMOST EVERY LANGUAGE, A DOG’S BARK IS WRITTEN DIFFERENTLY? IN AFRIKAANS, FOR EXAMPLE, A BARK IS A BLAF; IN ESPERANTO, IT’S A VOJ; AND IN SWEDISH, IT’S A VOFF.

**I CALL THESE DOGS BEAGLES BECAUSE OF EASE OF FAMILIARITY. IN POINT OF FACT, HOWEVER, THEY WERE TALBOT HOUNDS, A PREDECESSOR OF THE MODERN BEAGLE.

*LORD PHARAOH, OF COURSE, WAS NEITHER LORD NOR PHARAOH BUT RATHER A SWISS DOCTOR WHO HAD RENAMED HIMSELF ONCE HE BECAME A MASTER ALCHEMIST. ABOUT LORD PHARAOH’S NAME, YOU MAY RECALL THAT MAX-ERNEST ONCE ASKED, “ISN’T THAT REDUNDANT? LIKE KING KING?” FUNNY, ISN’T IT?—GIVEN THE WAY MAX-ERNEST SEEMS TO REPEAT HIMSELF SO OFTEN.

**IT’S WORTH NOTING THAT IN HIS OLD AGE, THE HOMUNCULUS HIMSELF CLAIMED TO HAVE DINED WITH THE KING’S HOGS (AS OPPOSED TO DOGS). I THINK THIS FAILURE OF MEMORY ON HIS PART CAN BEST BE ASCRIBED TO THE PHENOMENON KNOWN AS “BELIEVING YOUR OWN PRESS.” SOMEWHERE ALONG THE LINE, HE MUST HAVE READ “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE” AND ACCEPTED THE LITERARY VERSION OF HIS LIFE AS THE TRUTH.

*THE ONE TIME HE’D SPOKEN TO GLOB, MAX-ERNEST HAD MENTIONED THAT GLOB AND BLOG WERE ANAGRAMS. “THEY HAVE ALL THE SAME LETTERS. LIKE WHEN YOU TRY TO FIND WORDS IN SCRABBLE OR BOGGLE. ACTUALLY, COME TO THINK OF IT, BOTH WORDS ARE CONTAINED IN THE NAME BOGGLE. HOW ’BOUT THAT?” HE’D MEANT THE COMMENT TO BE COMPLIMENTARY, BUT GLOB HAD TAKEN OFFENSE. “SO WHAT! GLOB BLOG IS STILL MINE. I CAME UP WITH IT MYSELF. I’VE NEVER EVEN PLAYED THAT,” SAID GLOB, AS IF MAX-ERNEST HAD IMPLIED THAT GLOB HAD STOLEN THE NAME OF HIS BLOG FROM A GAME OF BOGGLE.

*OFFICIALLY, THE NUTS TABLE WAS THE TABLE FOR KIDS WITH NUT ALLERGIES, AND FOR A LONG TIME MAX-ERNEST HAD WONDERED WHY IT WASN’T CALLED THE NO-NUTS TABLE. RECENTLY, MAX-ERNEST HAD FIGURED IT OUT: THE OTHER KIDS AT SCHOOL THOUGHT THAT THE KIDS AT THE NUTS TABLE WERE, YOU GUESSED IT, NUTS.

*IN FRENCH, TÊTE-À-TÊTE MEANS HEAD-TO-HEAD, AS IN A HEAD-TO-HEAD (OR HEART-TO-HEART) CONVERSATION. IN ENGLISH, IT MEANS YOU LIKE TO PEPPER YOUR SPEECH WITH PRETENTIOUS FRENCH PHRASES.

*AS A RULE, MAX-ERNEST DISLIKED FICTION. HE DIDN’T UNDERSTAND THE POINT OF READING ABOUT SOMETHING THAT WASN’T TRUE. BUT HE MADE AN EXCEPTION FOR MYSTERIES, BECAUSE THEY WERE LIKE PUZZLES OR RIDDLES, ONLY LONGER. THE HARDY BOYS BOOKS HAD BEEN HIS FAVORITE MYSTERIES WHEN HE WAS YOUNGER. NOW HE PREFERRED EDGAR ALLAN POE AND SHERLOCK HOLMES.

**IF YOU HAVEN’T HEARD OF SYNESTHESIA, YOU MIGHT CONSIDER CONSULTING THE FIRST BOOK IN THE SECRET SERIES. BUT I WARN YOU, IT WILL STILL MEAN CONFUSION—A CONFUSION OF THE SENSES, THAT IS.

*I COULD TELL YOU WHAT INSOUCIANCE MEANS IF I CHOSE TO, BUT I CAN’T BE TROUBLED AT THE MOMENT—IT’S FAR TOO SUNNY A DAY. (HINT: THE OPPOSITE OF INSOUCIANT IS ANXIOUS AND STRESSED OUT.) AS FOR SAVOIR FAIRE, IT MEANS KNOW WHAT TO DO IN FRENCH. IN ENGLISH, IT MEANS THE SAME THING TÊTE-À-TÊTE DOES, I.E., THAT YOU HAVE A PREDILECTION FOR PRETENTIOUS FRENCH PHRASES.

*WITHOUT GIVING TOO MUCH AWAY ABOUT HIS LOCATION, I CAN TELL YOU THAT MAX-ERNEST WAS NOWHERE CLOSE TO CHICAGO O’HARE AIRPORT, AND GETTING THERE ON HIS OWN WOULD HAVE BEEN VERY DIFFICULT FOR SOMEONE HIS AGE, TO SAY THE LEAST.

*ALSO, IT’S JUST POSSIBLE THAT MAX-ERNEST’S FEELINGS WERE A BIT HURT. PIETRO, OF COURSE, LOVED PRANKS, BUT THE KICK ME SIGN SEEMED UNNECESSARILY MEAN. COULDN’T THE MAGICIAN HAVE LEFT THE MESSAGE IN SOME OTHER WAY? I THINK MAX-ERNEST MAY HAVE DELAYED DECODING THE MESSAGE AS A SILENT AND FRANKLY INEFFECTIVE MEANS OF RETALIATION.

*I FEEL DUTY-BOUND TO POINT OUT HERE THAT WHILE A TRUE GOURMAND, THE HOMUNCULUS IS NOT IN FACT A CANNIBAL, AT LEAST NOT IN ALL SENSES OF THE WORD. IT IS TRUE THAT HE SOMETIMES EATS PEOPLE (ROASTED VILLAINS, MOSTLY), BUT SINCE HE IS NOT FULLY HUMAN HIMSELF, HE IS, ARGUABLY, NOT FULLY CANNIBALISTIC. IN ORDER TO BE A CANNIBAL, PROPERLY SPEAKING, HE WOULD HAVE TO EAT OTHER HOMUNCULI (WHETHER ROASTED, JELLIED, OR RAW). JUST AS A CANNIBAL SQUIRREL EATS SQUIRREL STEW, NOT HUMAN RAGOUT. UNFORTUNATELY, HE IS THE ONLY HOMUNCULUS IN EXISTENCE THAT I KNOW OF. ERGO, HE COULD NOT BECOME A CANNIBAL NO MATTER HOW HARD HE TRIED. NO, LET ME AMEND THAT: HE COULD EAT HIMSELF. AND KNOWING HIM, IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, HE WOULD.

*THE PRIME DIRECTIVE, A FAVORITE CONVERSATION TOPIC AT THE NUTS TABLE, IS THE FIRST RULE GUIDING THE STARFLEET ON STAR TREK. IT HOLDS THAT A SPACE TRAVELER MUST NOT INTERFERE WITH THE NATURAL DEVELOPMENT OF A PLANET THAT HAS NOT YET GAINED THE CAPACITY FOR INTERSTELLAR SPACE TRAVEL. OF COURSE, THIS IS A RULE THAT GETS BROKEN AGAIN AND AGAIN.

*A FINAL NOTE ON DIFFERENCES BETWEEN LEGEND AND REALITY:
IF YOU HAVE NOT READ “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE,” YOU MAY SKIP THIS FOOTNOTE. IF YOU HAVE READ IT, YOU WILL NO DOUBT NOTICE SEVERAL DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN THAT STORY AND THE CHAPTER ABOVE. ASIDE FROM THE DOGS/HOGS CONFUSION, WHICH CASS HERSELF NOTED, THERE ARE TWO MAJOR DISCREPANCIES THAT I FEEL I SHOULD ADDRESS. THE FIRST CONCERNS THE NAMING OF THE HOMUNCULUS. IN “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE,” THE HOMUNCULUS ADMITS TO THE JESTER IN THEIR VERY FIRST CONVERSATION THAT LORD PHARAOH’S HOUSEKEEPER OCCASIONALLY CALLS HIM “HER LITTLE CABBAGE FACE,” AND THE JESTER SEIZES ON THAT AS THE HOMUNCULUS’S NAME. AS FAR AS I KNOW, NO SUCH EXCHANGE OCCURRED IN REALITY—AT LEAST NOT AT THE TIME DESCRIBED. THE OTHER DISCREPANCY CONCERNS THE SOUND PRISM, THE MAGICAL BALL OF SOUND THAT THE JESTER PLAYS LIKE AN INSTRUMENT IN “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE” AND THAT CASS, MAX-ERNEST, AND YO-YOJI USE YEARS LATER TO SUMMON THE HOMUNCULUS. WHY DOES THE JESTER NOT HAVE THE SOUND PRISM IN THE TIME OF THIS BOOK, WE CANNOT HELP ASKING. I HAVE NO WAY OF KNOWING FOR CERTAIN, BUT I THINK THE EXPLANATION FOR BOTH DISCREPANCIES IS THE SAME. THOSE THINGS SIMPLY HAPPENED LATER. THAT IS TO SAY, THE HOMUNCULUS WAS NAMED LATER IN HIS LIFE, AND THE JESTER ACQUIRED THE SOUND PRISM LATER IN HIS. I BELIEVE THE AUTHOR OF “THE LEGEND OF CABBAGE FACE” MUST HAVE COLLAPSED TIME FOR HIS OWN LITERARY PURPOSES. MANY AUTHORS DO THIS. THAT IS WHY MEMOIRS IN PARTICULAR ARE NOTORIOUSLY UNRELIABLE.

*PURLOINED, AS EVERY ASPIRING BOOK THIEF SHOULD KNOW, MEANS STOLEN. THERE IS A FAMOUS STORY BY EDGAR ALLAN POE CALLED “THE PURLOINED LETTER.” IN THE STORY, NOBODY CAN FIGURE OUT WHERE THE PURLOINED LETTER HAS BEEN HIDDEN—UNTIL POE’S HERO, THE DETECTIVE DUPIN, REALIZES IT’S BEEN SITTING ON THE MANTELPIECE RIGHT IN FRONT OF EVERYBODY’S NOSE.

*EVEN TO GEOLOGISTS, A LODESTONE—ALSO KNOWN AS MAGNETITE—IS SOMEWHAT MYSTERIOUS. MOST NOW BELIEVE A LODESTONE GAINS ITS MAGNETIC FORCE WHEN IT IS STRUCK BY LIGHTNING, BUT NOBODY KNOWS FOR CERTAIN.

*THE BROTHERS WOULD BE PIETRO AND DR. L (THEN LUCIANO), OF COURSE. WHEN THEY WERE ONLY ELEVEN YEARS OLD, THEY USED THE SYMPHONY OF SMELLS TO COMMUNICATE IN SMELL-CODE AS PART OF THEIR CIRCUS ACT.

*FRUMENTY, IN CASE THEY DON’T HAVE IT WHERE YOU COME FROM, IS MADE FROM BOILED WHEAT. SOMETIMES CONSIDERED ENGLAND’S OLDEST DISH, IT WAS A MAINSTAY OF MEDIEVAL COOKERY, TRADITIONALLY SERVED WITH VENISON OR PORPOISE. (YES, VENISON, AS IN DEER, AND PORPOISE, AS IN DOLPHIN!)

*IF YOU’RE CURIOUS, THE PARIETAL LOBE IS THE PART OF YOUR BRAIN THAT INTEGRATES THE FIVE SENSES.

*GLOB HAD GIVEN MAX-ERNEST HIS LAST SAMPLE OF THE VOLCANO GUM AFTER BENJAMIN DID A LITTLE JUDICIOUS GLOBBY MIND READING AND GENTLY THREATENED TO TELL THE WORLD WHAT HE FOUND OUT. OUT OF RESPECT FOR THE DEAL THEY STRUCK, I WON’T REVEAL GLOB’S SHAMEFUL SECRETS HERE. ALL I WILL SAY IS THAT WHILE INSIGNIFICANT, THEY WERE PLENTIFUL.

*FOR THE CODE-CHALLENGED, A TRANSLATION OF THIS MESSAGE APPEARS IN THE APPENDIX ALONGSIDE YO-YOJI’S FIRST E-MAIL.

*PLEASE DON’T ASK ME WHAT JE NE SAIS QUOI MEANS; I’LL JUST SAY IT MEANS I DON’T KNOW WHAT.

*MEAD, WHICH YOU HAVE PERHAPS HEARD OF WITHOUT QUITE KNOWING WHAT IT WAS, IS A SORT OF WINE MADE FROM HONEY. ITS ORIGINS DATE BACK TO THE EARLIEST CIVILIZATIONS; IT WAS VERY POPULAR, FOR EXAMPLE, AMONG THE ANCIENT GREEKS. I WOULD NOT TRY IT IF I WERE YOU, HOWEVER. IN THE LEGEND OF BEOWULF, THE NORSEMEN WHO WERE ATTACKED BY THE MONSTER GRENDEL WERE FAMOUSLY DRUNK ON MEAD. APPARENTLY, THE MEAD GREATLY HINDERED THEM IN BATTLE—ALTHOUGH IT MAY HAVE DULLED THE PAIN A LITTLE.

*LEST I BE ACCUSED OF ENCOURAGING BAD GRAMMAR, I FEEL I MUST POINT OUT THAT, STRICTLY SPEAKING, THOSE LAST TWO WORDS SHOULD NOT HAVE READ EVEN HIM BUT RATHER EVEN HE. AS IN EVEN HE, MAX-ERNEST, COULD BE A MIND READER. BUT EVEN HE SOUNDS TOO STILTED, TOO UNNATURAL. EVEN FOR A STILTED AND UNNATURAL PERSON SUCH AS ME (I MEAN I!)

*CASS’S GRANDFATHERS ALWAYS INSISTED ON THE GRANDPA TITLE. IF CASS WAS THEIR SUBSTITUTE GRANDCHILD, THEN MAX-ERNEST, THEY SAID, WAS THEIR SUBSTITUTE SUBSTITUTE GRANDCHILD. OBVIOUSLY, THEY DEFINED FAMILY A BIT DIFFERENTLY THAN THE HOSPITAL DID.

*WARREN HARDING WAS THE TWENTY-NINTH PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES AND IS WIDELY REGARDED AS THE WORST. TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE, THERE IS NO NAVY SHIP NAMED AFTER HIM. NONETHELESS, I THINK WE SHOULD GIVE GRANDPA LARRY’S STORY THE BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT. PERHAPS, FOR EXAMPLE, THE WARREN HARDING WAS A NICKNAME FOR A DIFFERENTLY NAMED SHIP THAT HAPPENED TO HAVE PARTICULARLY BAD LUCK AT SEA.

*THESE ITEMS HAVE BEEN SELECTED BASED UPON YOUR CHOICE OF THE BOOK THIS ISN’T WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE BY PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH. IF YOU FEEL THE ITEMS HAVE BEEN SELECTED IN ERROR, OR YOU WOULD PREFER NOT TO HAVE YOUR PERSONAL TASTES PIGEONHOLED BY AN ANONYMOUS CORPORATE MACHINE, WELL, FRANKLY, THERE IS LITTLE YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT.

*HE KNEW FROM THE ONE HUNDRED SEVENTY-SEVEN TIMES HE HAD CLIMBED THE STAIRS THAT THERE WERE TWENTY-FOUR, BUT HE ALMOST ALWAYS COUNTED NONETHELESS.

*I HAPPEN TO KNOW THE OLDER MAX-ERNEST WASN’T RECOMMENDING ANY SUCH THING. IN FACT, HE WASN’T SPEAKING TO THE YOUNGER MAX-ERNEST AT ALL; HE WAS SPEAKING TO HIS CAT.

**IF YOU AREN’T FAMILIAR WITH SOCK MONSTERS, THEY ARE EXACTLY WHAT THEY SOUND LIKE: MONSTERS MADE OF OLD SOCKS (AND ASSORTED SCRAPS). CASS HAD A HABIT OF MAKING THEM IN MOMENTS OF STRESS.

*IN CASE YOU’RE WORRIED ABOUT IT, I HASTEN TO INFORM YOU THAT YO-YOJI’S GUITAR WAS A VERY LIGHTWEIGHT MODEL, UNLIKELY TO DO SERIOUS LASTING DAMAGE.

*I REFER, OF COURSE, TO KING SOLOMON’S FAMOUS OFFER TO SPLIT IN HALF A BABY THAT WAS CLAIMED BY TWO SEPARATE WOMEN. HE ASSUMED THAT A REAL MOTHER WOULD RATHER GIVE UP HER BABY THAN SEE IT IN PIECES. OBVIOUSLY, HE’D NEVER MET MAX-ERNEST’S PARENTS.

*NOTE: AS YOU PROBABLY KNOW, ON MOST BLOGS, NEWER POSTS APPEAR BEFORE OLDER ONES, SO YOU THE SEE MOST RECENT POST FIRST. HERE, FOR YOUR READING CONVENIENCE, I HAVE REARRANGED GLOB’S POSTS SO THEY NOW APPEAR IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER, OLDEST FIRST. I HAVE ALSO TAKEN THE LIBERTY OF CORRECTING A FEW TYPOS.

*YO-YOJI WAS RIGHT. YOU CAN MAKE A CAMERA OBSCURA YOURSELF. AND IT JUST SO HAPPENS YOU WILL FIND INSTRUCTIONS FOR DOING SO IN THE BACK OF THIS BOOK.

*WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO THE SECRETARY, I BELIEVE THE PLURAL OF CAMERA OBSCURA SHOULD BE CAMERAE OBSCURAE. IN OTHER RESPECTS, HER ACCOUNT IS CORRECT. NOBODY IS SURE HOW MANY ARTISTS USED CAMERAE OBSCURAE, BUT LEONARDO DA VINCI WROTE ABOUT THEM IN HIS NOTEBOOKS, AND VERMEER IS WIDELY BELIEVED TO HAVE USED ONE.

*APART FROM BEING AN EXPERT DECODER, MAX-ERNEST WAS A MUMBLER HIMSELF, AND HE’D ALWAYS BEEN VERY GOOD AT INTERPRETING THE SOUNDS BENJAMIN MADE—THAT IS, THE OLD BENJAMIN.

*I’M SORRY TO SAY THAT THE SEER IS INCORRECT—ABOUT FLIES AT LEAST. STRICTLY SPEAKING, A FLY HAS ONLY TWO EYES. EACH FLY EYE HAS HUNDREDS OF FACETS AND THEREFORE CAN SEE IN HUNDREDS OF DIRECTIONS—ERGO, THE MYTH THAT A FLY HAS EIGHT HUNDRED EYES.

*ON THE OFF-CHANCE THAT YOU HAVE NEVER COMPETED IN ANY MEDIEVAL TOURNAMENTS, I SHOULD TELL YOU THAT THE WORD QUINTAIN HERE REFERS TO THE TARGET AT WHICH THE KNIGHTS AIM THEIR LANCES. A HASTILUDE, MEANWHILE, IS ANY KIND OF MILITARY-STYLE GAME THAT WAS UNDERTAKEN IN THE MIDDLE AGES, BUT MOST ESPECIALLY A JOUST.

*MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS DID, IN FACT, FAMOUSLY PLOT AGAINST HER COUSIN QUEEN ELIZABETH VIA SECRET, CODED MESSAGES HIDDEN IN WINE BARRELS. UNLUCKILY FOR MARY, ELIZABETH’S SECRETARY HAPPENED TO BE ENGLAND’S PREMIER SPY AND CODEMASTER. HE CRACKED THE PLOTTERS’ CODE, AND A DOUBLE AGENT MONITORED THEIR COMMUNICATIONS. IN THE END, MARY’S FATE WAS NOT SETTLED VIA A JOUST, HOWEVER. SHE WAS FOUND GUILTY OF CONSPIRING TO KILL THE QUEEN AND SHE WAS EXECUTED.

*AS YOU MAY KNOW, DR. JOHN H. WATSON IS SHERLOCK HOLMES’S FRIEND AND OCCASIONAL PARTNER IN DETECTION, AS WELL AS THE NARRATOR OF THE SHERLOCK HOLMES STORIES. HE PLAYS THE ROLE KNOWN AS SECOND FIDDLE—A ROLE CASS WOULD NEVER WANT FOR HERSELF.

*APPENDICES IS A PLURAL FORM OF APPENDIX. IN THE PAST, I’VE CHOSEN TO EMPLOY THE SINGULAR FORM AT THE END OF MY BOOKS, BUT EVERY TIME I SEE THE WORD I THINK OF THE INTERNAL ORGAN OF THE SAME NAME AND IMAGINE AN OPERATION TO REMOVE THE APPENDIX FROM THE BOOK IN QUESTION. APPENDICES SOUNDS LESS MEDICAL TO MY EAR. ALSO IT IS ARGUABLY MORE CORRECT BECAUSE I ALWAYS HAVE MORE THAN ONE SECTION IN THE APPENDIX/APPENDICES OF MY BOOKS, AND EACH SECTION IS A KIND OF APPENDIX OF ITS OWN—AND PROBABLY SHOULD BE REMOVED BY A DOCTOR.

*YOU KNOW THE RULES: WHOEVER BLINKS FIRST LOSES.




YOU HAVE TO STOP THIS
By Pseudonymous bosch


FOR P
WITH SECRET THANKS TO
SB, JH, AND MP

AND TO MY MOM,
WHO STILL HELPS ME WITH MY HOMEWORK

THE OATH OF TERCES        

I HAVE A SECRET I CAN'T TELL NOR INK.
THOUGH IT HAS NO SCENT, IT DOES OFTEN STINK.
THOUGH IT MAKES NO SOUND, IT CAN MAKE YOU ROAR. 
WHEN IT'S TASTELESS, I LIKE IT ALL THE MORE. 
THOUGH IT HAS NO SHADE, IT LACKS NOT COLOR. 
THOUGH IT HAS NO SHAPE, NO CAUSE FOR DOLOR.
IF YOU THINK YOU KNOW IT, YOU'RE INCORRECT,
AND FROM YOU THE SECRET I WILL PROTECT.
THE SECRET OF LIFE IS NOT STONE NOR CENTS,
FOR THE SECRET SENSE IS BUT A NONSENSE.

PREFACE
EGYPT, 1212 BC

An ibis stood, silent and still, on the shore of the Nile.
Below him, birds dove into the river’s murky shallows, vainly stabbing at frogs and fish. Occasionally, one or two rose victorious out of the water, dangling their dripping prey from their beaks. The other birds squawked in jealousy. But the ibis—the sacred ibis—, as the Egyptian variety of the species is known—seemed unaware of the commotion around him.
With his snow-white body, ink-black head, and long, curved beak, he looked proud, elegant, inscrutable.
He took no notice of the villagers washing their linens on the rocks. Nor of the fishermen passing by in their reed boats. When children threw stones at the other birds, they flapped their wings in fright; the ibis kept his wings closed around his body like a shell. Only the brief appearance of a crocodile crawling through the papyrus plants caused the ibis’s feathers to ruffle; and even then, his stick-like legs never moved.
For hours, the ibis stared unwaveringly at the horizon. It was as if he were waiting for a signal—a red flag, say, or a puff of smoke—but the sun set, the moon rose, the stars twinkled, and still he did not stir.
Then, well after more cautious birds had retired to their nests, the ibis suddenly and without warning spread his wings and jumped into the air. He flew swiftly and purposefully across the Nile, his slender neck stretched forward into the night, his wide, white wings illuminated from behind by the brilliant light of the Saharan moon.
Elsewhere in the desert, on the steep stone steps of a temple to the god Thoth, an innocent man was being executed by order of the pharaoh.
There was no way the ibis could have heard the condemned man’s cries, let alone have read the fateful secret the man had inscribed only a moment before on a piece of papyrus. And yet it almost seemed the ibis was heeding his call.

CHAPTER ONE
  
Pick one:*
1. A short time ago, in a land uncomfortably close by…
2. He was a dark and stormy knight.
3. He was the best of mimes. He was the worst of mimes.
4. This book looks lame. I’m watching TV.
5. Run!

CHAPTER TWO
THE FIRE SALE

OK, you’ve waited long enough. Let me put you out of your misery right now.
I will reveal the Secret—a secret that people have sought for centuries, for millennia even—on the very next page.…

Well, maybe the next page…

The next…?

No, no, I can’t. It’s much too soon.
If I tell you the Secret now, you won’t want to read any further, will you? I’ll do it before the end of this book.
I promise. Maybe.
It depends on a few things.
For instance—how you look at it.
Are you really sure you want to know the Secret, anyway?
Revealing a secret is a bit like releasing air from a balloon: the secret spirals around and makes a fun noise—and if you aim right, it might even hit somebody in the nose—but afterward it always falls to the ground, and everyone is left with that sad, after-the-balloon feeling of loss and abandonment.
That doesn’t sound very satisfying, does it?
Then again, when have you known me to satisfy anything but my own cravings for chocolate?
Honestly, I don’t know why you bother to read a word I write. If you want to give up on me now, I understand completely. Never mind all the time you’ve already put in; sometimes it’s better to cut and run (see Chapter One).
Now’s your chance to escape. Don’t worry—I won’t look. I’ll just close my eyes and have a nibble of this delicious bar of dark, dark—

Hmmgh… well, maybe just one more… hmmgh…

—No? You’re staying put? Stubborn, aren’t you? Or just morbidly curious?
I know, this book is like a car accident. You don’t want to stare—you just can’t help it.
If it’s any comfort, your old friend Cass is anything but satisfied at the time this story begins.
She, too, is desperate to learn the Secret.
Recently, remember, she came torturously close to learning the Secret. Among the things she inherited from her ancestor, the Jester, was a fragment of papyrus with the Secret written on it in hieroglyphs. Alas, the papyrus disintegrated in front of her eyes.
Now Cass is headed for her grandfathers’ place. She has just heard that her grandfathers are selling their old firehouse, and she wants to make sure the Jester’s trunk doesn’t get lost in the move. She hopes that another clue about the Secret may lie inside the—

Oh! There she is, walking down the road to the firehouse with Max-Ernest. I didn’t realize I’d been going on for so long.
If I’m not mistaken, they are discussing the assignment they just turned in for their class’s Egypt unit: make a list of the ten things you would take with you into the afterlife. As I’m sure you know, the ancient Egyptians were very keen on keeping as many of their possessions as possible—for as long as possible.
Here, let’s listen:
“… and a giant bar of chocolate, of course, in case I get hungry in the afterlife, and a pair of underwear, because, you know,” Max-Ernest was saying. “Oh, and a deck of cards. Or do you think that’s cheating? Since there are fifty-two cards in a deck, and we’re only supposed to take ten things?”
“No, I think you can count a deck as one thing,” said Cass, walking a few feet ahead. Max-Ernest struggled to keep up.
The view couldn’t have been more familiar. The backpack. The braids. The big pointy ears. Always, always from behind. Which was very unfair, when you thought about it. He, Max-Ernest, was shorter than Cass. Rightfully, he should go first; he wouldn’t block her line of vision. “Did the Egyptians have cards?” Cass asked casually. “It seems like hieroglyphs would make a cool deck of cards.”
Max-Ernest lit up. “That’s a great idea! I don’t think the Egyptians had them, but we could make our own cards and—”
“There are just twenty-four hieroglyphs in the Egyptian alphabet, right?” asked Cass, cutting him off. “Or are there more? I feel like I heard both things.”
Cass stopped at an intersection. Cars passed at a snail’s pace, honking their horns impatiently.
It was unexpectedly busy for their quiet neighborhood.
“Well, there are twenty-four main ones. They stand in for sounds, like our letters do,” Max-Ernest explained, happy to discuss a topic that was of such passionate interest to him. “But there are thousands and thousands of others that are more like picture-words. I don’t think anybody knows how many—”
Cass’s face fell. “They don’t—?”
“Yeah, think about it—your card deck could be as big as you want,” said Max-Ernest enthusiastically.
“Oh no. That’s just what I was afraid of.…”
Max-Ernest looked at Cass, confused by her sudden change of mood. “What do you mean? Why is that a bad thing?”
Cass bit her lip. She was the Secret Keeper; the Secret was supposed to be hers alone. Not to mention, it was common knowledge that Max-Ernest couldn’t keep a secret. And yet, despite his faults, he was her best friend and unflagging investigative companion. She’d been resisting for weeks, but she couldn’t help wanting to confide in him.
She looked at her friend and took the plunge. “What if I told you I got the Jester’s trunk open?”
Max-Ernest’s eyes widened. “You figured out the combination?”
Cass nodded. “And what if I told you there was a piece of papyrus inside, with writing on it?” “With hieroglyphs, you mean? That’s why you’re asking about them?”
Cass didn’t say anything.
Max-Ernest stared at her. “Wait—this doesn’t have anything to do with the Secret, does it?” “Shh!! What are you thinking—?!”
They both looked around. Nobody was within earshot. (You and me they couldn’t see, of course.)

“Sorry,” said Max-Ernest, red-faced.
Not mentioning the Secret aloud was one of the most important rules—almost the only rule— for members of their secret organization, the Terces Society. Normally, even the compulsively talkative Max-Ernest abided by it.
“Anyway, it doesn’t matter what it was. It was so old that it turned to dust as soon as I saw it,” said Cass glumly.
“So what you’re saying is, you had the you-know-what in your hands, and then it just disappeared?” The full weight of it was sinking into Max-Ernest’s head. “That’s… that’s horrible!”
Cass sighed and started walking across the street. “I promised myself I wouldn’t tell you—” “Don’t worry. You didn’t tell me—I guessed,” said Max-Ernest, following her. “Anyway, how could you not tell me? I’m the one who knows hieroglyphs. Can you remember any? I could translate them—”
“I know, it’s driving me crazy. It’s the one time I need your help, and I can’t ask—” “The one time—?”
“You know what I mean.”
“No, I don’t. You’ve needed my help exactly six hundred and thirty-two times.” Cass shook her head in amazement. “You’ve been counting?”
Max-Ernest shrugged off the question. “So what else was in the trunk the Jester sent you, besides the papyrus?”
“Nothing important. Just treasure.”
“You mean like treasure treasure? Gold coins and stuff?”
“Yeah, a lot, actually,” said Cass, as if it were no big deal. “I want to look again in case there are any other clues in there about… it.”
“I can’t believe you waited so long to tell me all this,” said Max-Ernest. “No wonder you’ve been acting so weird lately. You’re… rich.”
But Cass wasn’t listening; she was staring down the street, where there was a terrible traffic jam. Cars were stalled. People were shouting. Babies were crying.
“What’s going on?” she asked, her pointy ears tingling in alarm.
As they got closer to the old firehouse where Cass’s grandfathers lived, men and women and children walked by, holding boxes and bags with odd old objects peeking out: a broken banjo, a Hula Hoop, a fireplace poker, a fishing rod, several ancient computers, even a cash register.
“Maybe there’s going to be a hurricane or a flood?” suggested Max-Ernest. “Or a big fire?”
Cass, who was normally the one to predict disasters of that sort, shook her head. “Uh, I don’t think so. It’s… something worse.”
“What—nuclear war?”
“No, a garage sale,” said Cass grimly.

She was right.
Their progress slowed to a near halt as they came within view of the firehouse. The entire street was crowded with cardboard boxes and people combing through them. Tables were piled high with dusty glassware and broken ceramics and hard-to-identify appliances. Mismatched shoes and neckties of all sizes and colors flew into the air as people discarded them. Old books and magazines covered the ground like fallen leaves.

“Are your grandfathers really selling all their stuff? I can’t believe it,” said Max-Ernest. “I know—it’s weird,” said Cass, slightly nauseated.
She stopped in front of the firehouse, where a new yellow sign had been planted. Instead of a sign for her grandfathers’ antiques store, the Fire Sale, there was now one that said

GLORIA FORTUNE
Realty

Cass stared at the sign as if it were an alien spacecraft that had landed on her grandfathers’ front steps. “My mom said they were moving, but I guess I didn’t really think about what that meant. It’s like they’re selling my childhood—”
“So where did you leave the trunk?” asked Max-Ernest, who was understandably eager to get his first view of real treasure.
He glanced around. A few trunks lay on the street, but none that looked like the ancient trunk that Cass’s ancestor had sent her so many centuries ago—and that had circled the globe so many times before reaching her.
“Huh? Oh, I hid it way in the back.” Cass started up the front steps of the firehouse. “Come on, let’s go inside before my grandfathers see us.”
But when they looked inside, the firehouse was completely empty—that is, aside from the cobwebs and dust that had accumulated behind all the boxes and shelves and tables that had, until very recently, cluttered the space.
The one familiar thing that remained: the brass fire pole, as shiny as ever. Cass swallowed, remembering all the times she had slid down it.
“Um, Cass, shouldn’t we go look outside before somebody—?” “Don’t even think it!” said Cass, running out the door.

If they didn’t find the trunk before some lucky garage-sale customer snatched it away, Cass’s glittering inheritance—not to mention any clue it might contain about the Secret—would be lost forever.

CHAPTER THREE
THE BIG STUFF
  
They found Grandpa Larry standing by a table of books. “How much is this old set?” a scowling man was asking.
“The encyclopedia? Why, it’s a classic, and it’s not for sale!” said Grandpa Larry automatically.
“Then what’s it doing out here?” the customer replied angrily. “Fine, twist my arm, five dollars,” said Grandpa Larry grumpily. “Eh, maybe I’ll just—”
“Oh, heck, twenty-five cents.”
“Deal!” The gleeful customer started scooping up encyclopedia volumes and tossing them into a cardboard box.
“Hey, Grandpa Larry.” Cass tugged on her grandfather’s sleeve. He was wearing a vintage Hawaiian shirt and a Panama hat—as if he were dressed for a tropical vacation.
Grandpa Larry smiled in delight. “Cass! I didn’t know you were here.” “Well, I didn’t know you were moving!” said Cass accusatorily.
“Didn’t your mother tell you? We’re going on an around-the-world cruise.” “Cruises are for old people. You hate all that stuff.”
“What do you mean? We are old people.”
“I still don’t understand why you have to sell everything. Aren’t you going to come back? What about my graduation?”
Grandpa Larry put his arm around Cass. “You know as well as I do, this place hasn’t been the same since Sebastian left us,” he said gently.
Cass nodded. Six weeks earlier, the ailing basset hound, who had survived long beyond the dire predictions of veterinarians, had died in his sleep. Cass, who loved Sebastian as if he were her own dog, had been unable to bring herself to visit ever since.
“All this stuff—it was bogging us down.” Grandpa Larry gestured to the piles around him. “And, besides, you know what they say: you can’t take it with you.”
While Cass tried to absorb what he was saying, Grandpa Larry turned to Max-Ernest. “Max-Ernest, my friend, anything you want, I’ll give you a great deal—it’s called free,” he whispered confidentially. “I have some joke books you’ll like. Also, a set of loaded dice—”
“Thanks, Grandpa Larry,” said Max-Ernest, wistfully eyeing the tables around him. “But right now, um, Cass has a question.”
“Oh yeah,” said Cass, who was so upset she’d all but forgotten the purpose of their visit. “Grandpa Larry, have you seen a big old trunk around—you know, the kind with a lot of travel stickers?”
Larry looked curiously at Cass. “That wasn’t yours, was it? We couldn’t remember where we picked it up. Figured it must have been one of those lost weekends in the 1970s…”
“Yeah, no, I mean, it’s not mine!” said Cass in a rush. “I was just wondering if you had a trunk like that because… because we’re doing a unit on ancient Egypt at school, and we’re supposed to put together a box of all the stuff we would take into the afterlife.”
Grandpa Larry laughed. “After you’re mummified, you mean?” “Exactly,” said Cass.
Max-Ernest nodded, playing along. “On Friday, we’re going on a field trip to the mummy exhibit at the Natural History Museum.” (That part, at least, was true. As for the afterlife assignment, it had been turned in already.)
“Well, the trunk I’m thinking of would be perfect—it’s a time capsule all by itself,” said Grandpa Larry. “Last I saw, Grandpa Wayne was hauling it outside.”

Grandpa Wayne, who was dressed not in tropical finery but in his usual grease-stained mechanic’s overalls, was in the middle of explaining the intricacies of repairing a fifty-year-old black-and-white TV to a bored customer. When Cass and Max-Ernest ran up, the customer hurriedly—and gratefully—excused himself.
Grandpa Wayne remembered the trunk—he had spent forty-five minutes trying to open the lock before giving up—but there were so many people coming in and out that he couldn’t remember whether he’d sold it or not.
“Try looking by my truck—that’s where all the big stuff is.”
The “big stuff” lying by Wayne’s rusty old truck included such marvels as a purple player piano; a tuba with a small palm tree growing out of it; and a dry aquarium with a miniature pink castle that was home to a family of cockroaches.
Unfortunately, there was no trunk in sight. Cass and Max-Ernest looked around nervously, neither of them voicing their fears.
“What’s Sebastian’s bed doing here?” asked Max-Ernest, nodding at the threadbare doggy bed lying on the truck’s open tailgate.
Nestled on the bed was a ceramic cookie jar shaped like a bone. Next to the bed was a sign:
NOT FOR SALE.
Cass bent down and sniffed Sebastian’s bed. “It smells like him.” Max-Ernest lifted the lid of the cookie jar, then quickly closed it. “What—moldy biscuits or something?” asked Cass. “Something.”
“What?”
Max-Ernest wrinkled his face. “Sebastian…” Cass winced. “You mean his ashes?”
“Unless they were just cleaning out the fireplace…”
Cass stared at the jar. “They must be taking him on the cruise.”
“The Egyptians mummified their pets all the time—it’s kind of the same thing,” said Max-Ernest. “I’ll bet there’ll be some cat mummies at the museum tomorrow. Hey, is that the trunk?”
The Jester’s trunk was lying in the shadows beneath the tailgate. Cass had resisted crying ever since they arrived at the garage sale, but at the sight of the trunk her eyes welled with tears.
“What’s wrong?” asked Max-Ernest. “Aren’t you glad we found it?”
“It’s Sebastian. He always helped us find everything. And now look, even when he’s dead, he still is.”
Cass laughed—and wiped her eyes with her sleeve.

The trunk was much too heavy for the two of them to carry all the way to Cass’s house. They decided they would get their friend Yo-Yoji to help them move it later that evening. In the meantime, they pushed-pulled-heaved-shoved-lifted-dropped it into the small cement yard behind the firehouse.
“Hopefully, it’ll be safe for a few hours,” said Cass, standing victoriously over the trunk, her face pink and sweaty. “My grandfathers hardly ever come back here—as you can tell.” She gestured to the long vines hanging from the firefighters’ old basketball hoop.
“Aren’t you gonna open it?” Distressed, Max-Ernest put his hand on the trunk. The layers upon layers of travel stickers and receipts and address changes formed a crust over the surface that made the trunk slightly forbidding but all the more tempting. He couldn’t believe he’d put in all that effort and wasn’t going to be rewarded with a peek. “For all we know, this is our only chance. When we come back, it’ll be dark. And then—”
“OK, OK,” said Cass, who in truth wanted to look inside the trunk as much as Max-Ernest did. “Just don’t ask any questions about… you know. I shouldn’t have said anything about it.”
“Then how’m I supposed to help?”
“You’re not! That’s what I’m trying to tell you.”
“OK, but just let me ask you one question,” said Max-Ernest. “I was thinking about the story of the doctor who discovered the… it. Remember? The pharaoh executed him—after he told the pharaoh about the you-know-what.”
Cass gave him a look that said, Yes, I remember, but no, I don’t want to talk about it. “He’s the one who wrote on the papyrus, right?”
Cass nodded almost imperceptibly.
“Do you think the papyrus was stolen from his grave? It must have been, right? I mean, how else—?”
Cass glared at him. “Max-Ernest! Do you want me to open the trunk or not?” “Yeah, yeah, OK.”
Equally impressed and dismayed, Max-Ernest watched Cass work the large and complex combination lock that had stymied him months earlier when they first tried to open the trunk.
When she raised the trunk’s lid, Max-Ernest gasped involuntarily.
Cass hadn’t been exaggerating. Treasure was the right word. Inside the trunk, coins and jewelry and other precious objects sparkled tantalizingly—seemingly as bright and shiny as the day the lid first closed on them.
“Wow, your great-great-great-whatever-grandmother must have been a pretty good thief.” “Yeah, she was,” said Cass proudly. “But she gave most of her stuff to the poor. I keep thinking—there must have been a reason she and the Jester left all this for me.”
Cass started pulling things out for inspection. Max-Ernest regarded the objects with awe, almost afraid to touch them.
“At first I was going to donate it—you know, for disaster preparedness or to fight global warming or child slavery,” she said, peering into a gold candlestick to see if anything was hidden inside. “But then I thought, who’s going to believe it’s mine?”
Cass opened a small silver box and found that it was full of uncut gems. They were beautiful even in their raw state and no doubt very precious, but they didn’t provide what she really was hoping for: another clue about the Secret.
Max-Ernest turned his attention to the brass lock. He still couldn’t get over the fact that Cass had managed to open it without him. He, not Cass, was supposed to be the expert combination cracker. Was she capable of finding the Secret without him, too? Of course, he wanted her to learn the Secret; so much depended on it. And yet—
“Hey, did you see this before?” he asked, examining the back of the lock. It protruded deeper into the trunk than might have been expected—like a box stuck to the inside of the trunk. “Why?”
“Well, I was wondering why the back of the lock was so big—and then I saw this groove here, and I’m thinking that it might—”
He gripped the back of the lock and twisted; it unscrewed like the top of a jar. “—come off like this,” he said, now holding it in his hand.
The back of the lock turned out to be a small box lined with cracked, papery old leather.
Inside was a gleaming gold ring tied to a strip of shredded linen.
“Look—I think it’s Egyptian!” said Max-Ernest. “You think it belonged to the doctor?” “Give that to me,” said Cass quickly.
Max-Ernest reluctantly handed her the ring.
Unexpectedly heavy for its size, it was molded from solid gold and resembled a signet ring. On top was a flat gold oval inlaid with lapis lazuli, the brilliant blue stone favored by the ancient Egyptians. Some of the stone had been chipped away, but enough was left to show the original image: a long-beaked bird presented in profile in the classic Egyptian style.

When Cass saw the bird, her pointy ears tingled with excitement. “Hey, um, is there a hieroglyph that looks like this?”
“Why? Does it look like one of the hieroglyphs you saw?” Max-Ernest knew that the Secret was supposed to be Cass’s, and Cass’s alone—they had been warned repeatedly that it was dangerous for anyone else to share knowledge of the Secret—but it was impossible not to ask.
“Just answer the question.”
“I thought you didn’t want any help.” Cass gave him a look.
“Yeah, it’s the hieroglyph of an ibis. The ibis was worshipped by the Egyptians, so you see a lot of them,” said Max-Ernest, studying Cass’s reaction. “But it isn’t always just an ibis. Sometimes it’s a symbol for Thoth—”
Cass tried to keep her facial expression neutral. “Thoth?”
“Remember from the spa? The god of magic and writing and judge of the dead?” (Years before, near the beginning of their adventures together, the god’s name had proved vital in their quest to save Benjamin Blake at the Midnight Sun Spa.) “If you think about it, that would make more sense than an ibis. The Sec—I mean, it is supposed to be about immortality, right?”
“Max-Ernest! Thanks, but that’s enough, OK?”
His mouth tightly closed, Max-Ernest contemplated this unwanted and unexpected shift in his relationship with Cass. In the past, the quest for the Secret had always brought the two of them together. Would it ever be that way again, he wondered, or would the Secret forever come between them?

Avoiding his glance, Cass examined the ring.
After the papyrus had turned to dust, Cass had the presence of mind to sketch the hieroglyphs in her notebook—but her memory was hazy, and her knowledge of hieroglyphs was scant. At best, the hieroglyphs she’d drawn bore a shaky resemblance to the originals.
During her studies for the Egypt unit, she compared her drawings over and over again to the hieroglyphs she’d seen—but with little luck. Before today, she’d succeeded in identifying only the first two of the five hieroglyphs: they meant because and what. Or she thought they did.
Now, thanks to the gold ring, she realized that the third hieroglyph depicted an ibis. She recognized the long curving beak. The rest of the bird—a football-shaped body atop stick-like legs—had been too smudged to read, at least in her recollection.
It wasn’t much, and it didn’t yet make any sense, but it was the beginning of the Secret:
Because what ibis Or perhaps: Because what Thoth

CHAPTER FOUR
Mummies, Middle School, and Me
  
GRADUATION SPEECH

First Rough Draft (Or is it rough first draft? Or first draft of rough draft? Or… you get the point.) By Max-Ernest, aka ME, i.e., Me, Myself, and I
ASSIGNED TOPIC: The Secret of Success

TITLE: Mummies, Middle School, and Me (That’s alliteration, if you didn’t know. Of course I know! I wrote it, duh.… Wait, you did? Then who am I?)

Open with mummy joke:

Maybe—

What is a mummy’s favorite musical program?
Name That Tomb.

—or—

What do you call a mummy who wins the lottery? A lucky stiff.

—or—

What did the sign at the Egyptian funeral home say?
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR DOUBLE YOUR MUMMY BACK.
(Question: do I have to credit book I get joke from?) 

Transition:
All joking aside, you might think mummies are a funny thing to talk about in a graduation speech.

Thesis:

If you really think about it, however, graduation resembles mummification in many ways. Both involve preparing for the next stage of life—or, in the case of mummies, the afterlife.

(Nice one, Max-Ernest. *Blushes* Why, thank you, Max-Ernest. Don’t mention it, Max-Ernest.) Main Body of Speech (Ha-ha, get it? A mummy is a body—well, a dead one…):
As most people know, the mummification process begins with a corpse’s brain being pulled out of his nose.

This is a lot like learning—only in reverse. In school, our teachers put things in our brains so every student “knows” (knows/nose, get it?) everything he should. Although, to be honest, I think some teachers pull stuff out of our brains and try to make us empty “airheads.” (Probably shouldn’t put that in this speech, should I?)

Semi-random factoid: the Egyptians thought people thought with their hearts, not their brains, so you’d have to say “airheart” if you wanted to insult their intelligence—not that you would. The Egyptians were pretty smart.

Anyway, the Egyptians wanted to take everything they could with them into the afterlife: servants, animals, food. But when you graduate, you can’t necessarily take everything with you. Friends, for example. Everybody says that in upper school, sometimes people don’t even talk to their old friends. It’s like they don’t exist.…

Wait. Scratch that. What does that have to do with anything? Back to mummies—

CHAPTER FIVE
A FIELD TRIP
  
Max-Ernest had spent the entire bus ride to the Natural History Museum trying out mummy jokes for his graduation speech. (The opportunity to make a speech was an honor bestowed on him as Bookworm of the Year, winner of the Book-a-Day Reading Challenge; also, there was the fact that nobody else had volunteered.) By the time they neared their destination, his friends were brainstorming ways to silence him.
“Maybe we’ll find some loose mummy bandages and we can gag him with them,” suggested Yo-Yoji, who, as usual, had an entire seat to himself and was comfortably reclining with his long legs up, showing off his neon-orange sneakers.
Cass, sitting with Max-Ernest in the seat opposite Yo-Yoji, shook her head. “Nah, he would just tell jokes with his hands. Don’t forget he knows sign language.”
Max-Ernest nodded cheerfully. How many mummies does it take to change a lightbulb? he signed, mouthing the words.
“OK, so we tie his wrists together—” said Yo-Yoji, ignoring him. “Forget it,” said Cass. “He’ll just tap Morse code with his foot.”
Max-Ernest started tapping the floor: N-O-N-E, T-H-E-Y L-I-V-E I-N E-T-E-R-N-A-L D-A-R- K-N-E-S-S.
“Then we’ll bury him in a sarcophagus,” Yo-Yoji persisted.
Cass shook her head again. “With our luck, an earthquake will push it to the surface, and he’ll jump out and tell some dumb joke about zombies—”
“Like this one?” asked Max-Ernest, grinning. “Do zombies eat hamburgers with their fingers?”
“See what I mean?”
“No, they eat their fingers separately!”
The plump boy who called himself Glob leaned over the seat in front of Max-Ernest. “Dude, zombies tell better jokes than you do—and I bet they give better graduation speeches, too.”
“Leave him alone, man,” said the boy sitting next to Glob, his voice muffled by the dreadlocks that covered his face. This was Daniel—more popularly known as Daniel-not-Danielle. “Zombies are cool. They kick mummy butt.”
“They’re not mutually exclusive categories, you know,” said Max-Ernest. “Zombie equals dead body that comes back to life. Mummy equals dead body. Ergo, mummy that comes back to life equals—”
“Silence, please!”
It was Mrs. Johnson, standing up near the front of the bus.
Our friends shrank in their seats. Although they were no longer quite as scared of their principal as they once had been, she still held the power to suspend them or even to prevent them from graduating middle school. And as much as they all feared graduating, there was one thing they all feared more: not graduating.
“Thank you,” said Mrs. Johnson, holding on to her turquoise-blue hat as the bus lurched to a stop in front of the old brick museum. “Let’s start practicing our museum voices now. Remember, a museum is not a zoo. It is a place of quiet contemplation and reflection—”

UNWRAPPED: REAL MUMMIES!
DUSTY TOMBS. ANCIENT CURSES. WALKING DEAD.

From King Tut to Boris Karloff*, mummies have long captured our imagination. Yet they are not just creatures of fantasy, haunting us on late-night television and on the streets at Halloween. They are material specimens of lost worlds—real people of the past whose bodies have been preserved so that we may study them today. What were their lives like? How did they die? What secrets do they hold in their ancient hands? Join us as these voyagers from the past take us on a journey across time.  

SPECIAL THANKS TO EGYPT’S SUPREME COUNCIL OF ANTIQUITIES EXHIBITION MADE POSSIBLE BY A GENEROUS GRANT FROM SOLAR-ZERO LLC  

Contrary to Mrs. Johnson’s assertion, the museum was quite loud. The marble floors and vaulted ceilings magnified the kids’ every footstep, and a lot of other sounds besides.
Most of the museum would be closed to the public for another two hours, and museum staff were using the time to repair exhibits and take inventory. It can be startling to hear soft-spoken curators shouting instructions or grave-faced museum guards joking with each other, but it certainly makes a museum livelier. If you’ve never visited a museum when it is closed, I recommend it; that’s when a museum really comes to life.
The special, behind-the-scenes tour had been arranged by Daniel-not-Danielle’s father, Dr. Albert Ndefo, who happened to be the chief curator of the mummy exhibit. Dr. Ndefo—also known as Albert 3-D, in reference to his three degrees: one in archaeology, one in anthropology, and one in Egyptology—greeted them next to the eight-foot-tall stone sarcophagus that stood just inside the entrance, dwarfing anyone who passed by. “Hi, everybody, welcome to chaos. We’re just doing a little rearranging before the noon rush!”
The Nigerian-born professor had dreadlocks like his son’s, but at the moment his were tied back under an old, camouflage-patterned sun hat that looked as though it had been to the desert and back more than once. He wore a T-shirt that said ARCHAEOLOGY—DIG IT!, and he ushered his guests into the exhibit as if they were entering an excavation of buried ruins.
“Watch your backs,” he warned. “The mummies most likely won’t attack, but museum workers have been known to shoot poison darts.”
As if on cue, a student bumped into a ladder, and a loose power cord fell down. Mrs. Johnson shrieked. Her students giggled.
“So, what is a mummy?” Albert 3-D asked rhetorically, beckoning the last few stragglers inside. “Simple: a mummy is any dead body whose tissue has been preserved beyond the usual time. In this exhibit, we have naturally occurring mummies as well as man-made ones. Mummies created in caves, in sand, in icebergs—and even, in the case of bog mummies, underwater.* There are specimens from Peru, Chile, Greenland, Norway, and, of course, ancient Egypt. And then there are the animal mummies.…”  
The first room of the exhibit was large and gray, with few doors and fewer windows. It looked not unlike a tomb—a strange, futuristic tomb in which mummies were confined in protective glass cases. On the walls were big backlit photos of archaeological digs and ancient burial grounds that cast a ghostly fluorescent glow on the faces of the students.
The students fell silent as they got their first look at the mummies on display. While the bog mummies were hardly more substantial than rags, others looked strong enough to stand. Some were wrapped in the familiar linen bandages; others, in sheets. Some were naked; others were wearing elaborate jeweled garments. Some had hair; some were bald. Some were sitting up; some, lying down. One was curled in a ball; another was slumped over.
A few students had to look away and take deep breaths; the mummies of UNWRAPPED: REAL MUMMIES! were altogether more real than they had imagined.
Yo-Yoji shook his head. “Ridiculous, man.”
Max-Ernest nodded uncertainly. Ridiculous was a word that Yo-Yoji had been using often lately, but as with many of the words he adopted, you didn’t always know if it was meant in a positive or negative sense—or in some other sense comprehensible only to those fluent in the language of cool.
“I’ll let you look around, and then we’ll talk in a few minutes,” said Albert 3-D. “Unless someone has a question right now?”
“I do,” said Glob. “Is it true people fart after they die? And if a mummy farts, will it still stink a thousand years later when his coffin is opened?”
His classmates tittered.
“Hmm… I doubt it,” Albert 3-D answered seriously. “The smell would dissipate long before then. But you’re right about dead bodies. In Mayan mythology, the god of the underworld was called Cizin, meaning stinking one.”

While the rest of her class laughed, Cass slipped the ibis ring onto her finger.
It was a bit foolish of her to wear the ring in public, she knew, but holding a little piece of ancient Egypt in her hand gave her a sense of confidence. Maybe seeing the ibis next to other hieroglyphs in the exhibit would jog her memory; today, she was determined to identify the remaining hieroglyphs of the Secret.
Her backpack, as usual, had everything she might need:
Magnifying glass: check. Hidden camera: check.
Molding wax for taking impressions: check. Brush for dusting specimens: check.
Armed like an archaeologist in the field, Cass looked in every place she might conceivably find a hieroglyph. While the other students casually checked out the exhibit, she methodically studied photos of tomb paintings and copies of spells from the Book of the Dead.* She examined the decorations on funeral masks, and the carvings on stone sarcophagi. She inspected tiny shabti figures who were supposed to serve Egyptian nobles in the afterlife, and strange finger-shaped amulets meant to seal wounds and protect the dead.  
And yet as far as she could tell, none of the hieroglyphs she saw resembled the hieroglyphs of the Secret. Then again, perhaps the sketches in her notebook were incorrect. There was no way to know.
Her confidence beginning to crumble, she stood, holding her notebook open in her hand and staring at a bowl of natron, the natural salt that is found in desert lakes and that was used by the Egyptians to dry out bodies before they were mummified. Could you mummify a body using normal table salt? she wondered idly. Maybe she should try it on herself. If she didn’t figure out the Secret soon, she might as well be mummified.

As she turned away, Max-Ernest crept up behind her. He reached around and tapped her on her far shoulder—
She spun around, snapping her notebook shut. “What? Oh!”
She rolled her eyes when she saw Max-Ernest standing there, grinning at his little practical joke. “That is so not funny.”
“Did you see the ibis mummies?”* “Uh-huh.”
Max-Ernest eyed the notebook in her hand. “Is that where you have your notes about… it?” “Shh!” Cass whispered sharply.
“If you’re so worried about people knowing, are you sure you should be wearing that ring?” asked Max-Ernest, stung.
Cass’s ears flared red. “Why don’t you go think of more jokes for your graduation speech or something?”
Max-Ernest watched her in consternation as she moved on to another display: HAVE YOU EVER WONDERED WHAT A MUMMY’S SKIN FEELS LIKE? TOUCH HERE TO
FIND OUT! It was an interactive wall display containing swatches of leather, plastic, and other materials. She touched a few of the swatches and made a face.
“What’s up with her?” asked Yo-Yoji. Max-Ernest shrugged. “You know Cass.”
Although Yo-Yoji was a fellow Terces member, it was Cass’s business to tell him—or not—about the latest development in her search for the Secret. And truth be told, Max-Ernest didn’t want to talk much about it. He was beginning to wish she’d never found the papyrus in the first place.
Yo-Yoji squinted. “Is that a ring on her finger? I’ve never seen her wear a ring before.…” He looked askance at Max-Ernest. “You didn’t give it to her, did you?”
“What? No! Why, were you planning on asking her to marry you?” asked Max-Ernest, recovering.
“Very funny…”
Yo-Yoji glanced at Cass again. It was almost as if he didn’t like the idea of somebody else giving her a ring.

CHAPTER SIX
THE MYSTERY MUMMY
  
A moment later, Albert 3-D gathered all the students together and led the class toward a four-sided glass chamber that stood in the center of the exhibit’s largest room.
“Here is our star attraction,” he said, opening the door to the chamber. “We keep the door closed during museum hours—you’re supposed to look in from the outside—but since the public’s not here yet, I thought I’d give you a treat.”
Inside the chamber, a stone sarcophagus lay open for viewing. Next to it were three colorfully decorated wooden coffins that descended in size like Russian nesting dolls, and four clay canopic jars, each about the size of a paint can.* Like many jars of this kind, these ones were topped with the heads of a person, a falcon, a baboon, and a jackal (who were supposed to guard the mummy’s liver, intestines, lungs, and stomach, respectively).  
“Please, please, don’t touch anything. Despite the fact that his grave was robbed repeatedly, this handsome fellow is one of the best-preserved mummies ever unearthed. His tomb was excavated just a year ago, and it’s the first time the Egyptians have allowed him to travel.”
Everyone gathered around the sarcophagus and eagerly stared down at the perfectly desiccated citizen of ancient Egypt.
“He’s something of a mystery mummy. We don’t even know his name. Around the museum, we call him Amun, which means the hidden one.”
Tightly wound linen bandages surrounded most of the mystery mummy’s body, but his head was bare, and his hands stuck out of the bandages just above his waist. His hair, assuming he’d ever had any, was long gone, and his skin had turned the color of bronze sculpture. His eyes were closed, but his mouth was open, revealing a few rotten teeth and a dark hole where his tongue should have been.
“He looks like that painting they make Halloween masks out of,” said Yo-Yoji. “What’s it called?”
“The Scream,” Max-Ernest volunteered.* “Maybe he was screaming in pain when he died. Then his mouth stayed open when rigor mortis set in. How ’bout that?”
“People scream for other reasons,” said Cass. “He could have been trying to warn somebody about something. Like a sandstorm or a plague of locusts—”
“I think he looks like he’s laughing,” said Glob.
“Actually, none of you are right,” said Albert 3-D. “His mouth was opened after his death.
The Egyptians opened the mouths of mummies so they could breathe in the afterlife.” “So how did he die, then?” asked Cass.
“All we know about Amun is that he was a young doctor who rose to become the pharaoh’s personal physician and adviser,” said Albert 3-D. “Then, suddenly…”
He ran his finger across his neck—the universal sign for execution.
He pointed to the smallest of Dr. Amun’s coffins, where some hieroglyphs were painted in black and red beneath the stylized face of a handsome young man.
“Daniel, do you want to read these glyphs for your classmates?” he asked, looking expectantly at his son.
Daniel-not-Danielle, who had remained remarkably quiet ever since they entered the museum, shook his head. His dreadlocks swung back and forth like a spinning mop.
“I’ll read them,” said Max-Ernest.

Albert looked at him in surprise. “You read hieroglyphs? Your Egypt unit was more in-depth than I thought.”
Max-Ernest shrugged. “It’s kind of a hobby.”
“Some people collect trading cards or play video games.” Glob snickered. “Max-Ernest reads hieroglyphs.”
“I do those things, too!” Max-Ernest protested. “He was being sarcastic,” said Cass. “Just read it.”
She looked over his shoulder, hoping that she might recognize one of her unidentified hieroglyphs. No luck.
Max-Ernest coughed exaggeratedly. “Ahem. OK, here goes—‘The name of this man is… secret’? Is that the word?”
Albert 3-D nodded. “Go on.” “‘Also secret is the reason for…’”
Max-Ernest stammered because a wild idea had just occurred to him. Could Dr. Amun be the doctor who had discovered the Secret? No, he thought, there’s no way.
“‘… for his death,’” read Albert 3-D, finishing the sentence. “That was very good. Have you considered going into Egyptology?”
“Yeah, I’ve considered it. But I still want to be a comedian. Or a comic magician.” (Max-Ernest had a pretty good idea he was going to wind up being a writer instead, but he hadn’t fully accepted it yet.)
“So nobody knows why Amun was executed?” asked Cass, who’d had the exact same idea about the mummy that Max-Ernest had had. (Only she didn’t think the idea was so wild.)
Albert 3-D shook his head. “The inscription continues: ‘Pharaoh asked for his wisdom, but he gave pharaoh only his wit.’… It sounds as though he made some kind of smart remark at the pharaoh’s expense—the kind of thing one of you guys might say about, oh, a teacher or a principal.”
He grinned at Mrs. Johnson. She didn’t grin back.
“Whatever he did, I doubt we would think he deserved to die for it.”
“In mummy movies, it’s always the ones who are wrongfully executed who come back to life,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Yeah, we better watch out,” said Glob. “Or we’re all going to die from the mummy’s curse!”*  
Albert 3-D chuckled. “I think the people burying him were a little worried about that, too. At the very end of the inscription, it reads: ‘In life he had the magic touch. Now may his hands lie still.’ Guess they were afraid he might reach out and grab them—”

As Albert 3-D led the class out of the sealed glass room, Cass, Yo-Yoji, and Max-Ernest leaned over the edge of the sarcophagus to examine the mummy more closely.
“So—do you think it’s him?” Cass whispered excitedly after everybody else had left. “Who?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Who do you think? The doctor who discovered the… you know.”
Yo-Yoji nodded. “Right! And he was killed right after he told it to the pharaoh. Or after he refused to tell him. Whatever. It’s almost exactly the same story.”
“I thought of that, too, but it would be a pretty huge coincidence,” said Max-Ernest. “Of all the mummies in the world, for this one to be that one particular doctor, here in our town, in an exhibit organized by our friend’s dad. I highly, highly, highly doubt that is the case.”
“A lot of things seem highly, highly, highly coincidental,” said Cass, irked. “That doesn’t mean they’re not true.”
“Plus, the hieroglyphs only said that the reason he was killed was secret,” Max-Ernest persisted stubbornly. “Not that the reason was a secret or the Secret.” Actually, he remembered as he said this, in ancient Egyptian the words a and the weren’t always used, so there was little difference. But he didn’t correct himself; he didn’t want to give Cass the satisfaction.
“Well, I say it’s him,” said Cass, leaning in even closer to the mummy. She didn’t know how she knew, but she knew.
She’d come to the museum hoping to translate the rest of the Secret, but instead she’d discovered something potentially much more significant: the man who had discovered the Secret and who, for that reason, had suffered a pharaoh’s wrath.
It was his dying hand, she was certain, that had written the Secret on a piece of papyrus thousands of years ago. And it was the same hand—with its long, bony fingers—that held Cass’s attention now. Though the mummy’s wrists were bound to his waist, his fingers stretched upward, as if the mummy were straining to break free of the linen bandages. As if he wanted to touch her. To grasp her.
Transfixed, she stared at the mummy’s fingers. She and Max-Ernest had found the ibis ring tied to a piece of shredded linen just like the bandages that wrapped the mummy. Could the ring once have encircled one of the mummy’s fingers? Albert 3-D had mentioned something about the mummy’s tomb being robbed.…
The fingers were dark and crooked, with broken fingernails the color of wood. She didn’t see any signs of scraping or stretching where a ring might have been pulled off, but she couldn’t be certain the signs weren’t there because—frustratingly—a few of the fingers of the mummy’s left hand were blocked from view by a stray bandage. If only she could move the bandage aside for a second…
She glanced over her shoulder. Max-Ernest had turned away, and Yo-Yoji was about to walk out of the glass room.
Taking a breath, Cass leaned down and gently pulled the bandage away from the mummy’s hand. Immediately, she noticed the index finger: below the knuckle was a faint but discernible ring where the mummy’s skin had turned black. The black ring narrowed at the sides of the finger and widened on top into a black oval. It was the exact shape of the ibis ring—
“Cassandra! Max-Ernest! Yoji! Get away from there!” Mrs. Johnson’s voice broke Cass’s concentration. “What part of ‘do not touch’ do you not understand?”
Cass spun around, her arms flailing in her attempt to distance herself from the mummy. Too late, she realized her sweatshirt sleeve had caught on something.
She heard a snap, like the sound of a twig breaking, and the next thing she knew, a slim, dark projectile was flying through the air.
It arced over Max-Ernest’s head, and as they all watched openmouthed, it landed right in the palm of Yo-Yoji’s hand.
He stared at it as if he had caught a live grenade. It was the mummy’s finger.

CHAPTER SEVEN
SHERDS NOT SHARDS  

Let me take a wild guess:
You have never broken the finger off a mummy. (Don’t feel bad about it; there’s still time.) Second wild guess:
You have, however, broken something valuable—maybe more than one something?—in the past.
They say time heals all wounds, but as you know from experience, that isn’t true. Certainly, time does not mend all broken pots. It especially doesn’t mend priceless Ming dynasty bowls, but I won’t bore you with that story right now. (I will tell you this: I wasn’t the one who thought it was a good idea to rest a fragile Chinese antique on top of a box of Belgian chocolates. Enough said.)
To return to the subject at hand, as it were, a broken finger is one thing; a broken-off finger, another. And a finger broken off a three-thousand-year-old corpse is an altogether different kettle of, er, something or other.
Everybody had an opinion about what to do with the miserable miscreants who had maimed the museum’s mystery mummy.*  
Mrs. Johnson suggested reporting the young offenders to the police right away—and, for good measure, to the Egyptian authorities as well.
“Vandalism is like a cancer,” she said. “It must be treated quickly and brutally, or it will spread. Today it’s a mummy. Tomorrow they will be defacing the Mona Lisa.”
The administrators of the museum, who did not look very kindly on the breaking of ancient artifacts lent to them by foreign countries, were inclined to let the principal decide her students’ fates.
Thankfully, the exhibit’s curator had a cooler head.
The mummy was a priceless treasure, true, he agreed. This was a terrible accident, yes. But it was an accident. And accidents happen. Even to mummies. Even to King Tut!*  
As the person who’d let students into the mummy’s chamber, he, Albert 3-D, took full responsibility for the incident. He would deal with any problems on the Egyptian side, and he would also put his mind to ways in which the kids could remedy their misdeed.
“Calling the police would not be helpful,” he concluded.
Reluctantly, Mrs. Johnson surrendered the young offenders to his control.
“But as far as I’m concerned, you’re all on probation,” said the principal to Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji. “If you want to graduate from middle school, you will do exactly as this man says. Otherwise, you will find yourselves repeating a grade. And, worse, spending another year with me!”

Albert 3-D soon came up with a plan, and late the very next afternoon—which happened to be a Saturday afternoon—the three chastened friends found themselves returning to the museum for their first round of “archaeology boot camp,” as the curator called it.
Their new home-away-from-home, the Restoration Room, looked like a combination art studio and science lab—and, in fact, that’s exactly what it was. On one side were the art supplies: paints, pens, and pencils; plasters, clays, and waxes; rolls of fabric and paper; spools of thread and twine; scissors of every size; and more types of glues and mastics than you ever imagined could possibly exist. On the other side were burners and beakers; acids and solvents; scales and thermometers; and all sorts of other substances and instruments for measuring and determining the age and composition of ancient and not-so-ancient objects.
Left to their own devices, I’m sure our enterprising young heroes could have done any number of things with all the materials at hand, from painting a masterpiece to building a bomb. Unfortunately, Albert 3-D had other plans for them.
When the archaeologist greeted them, he was holding an ordinary shoe box in his hands as delicately and carefully as if it were a Fabergé egg. Indeed, the shoe box contained something extraordinarily fragile: the mummy’s finger, lying on a bed of linen like a miniature mummy in a miniature sarcophagus.
“I want you all to see this so you understand the situation you’ve left us in,” he began sternly, without saying hello. “If you thought we could simply sew the finger back on, you’re wrong. There are many questions to think about: will the operation further damage the mummy? What type of thread should we use? Would it be better to glue the finger to the hand? Or should we leave the finger off to show how the body is affected by the passage of time?”
As for the shoe-box sarcophagus, its purpose was to re-create the conditions of mummification. Until the museum conservators figured out whether and how to reattach the finger, they wanted to store it in such a way that it would be preserved exactly as if it were still entombed under the sands of Egypt.
“Are you ready for your assignment?” Albert 3-D asked, placing the shoe box on a high shelf, next to a few urns that were in the process of being reassembled.
His three nervous charges looked at the long table in the middle of the room. It was covered with hundreds, perhaps thousands, of broken pieces of pottery.
“We’re not supposed to organize all of those pottery shards, are we?” asked Max-Ernest.
“In archaeology, we call them sherds, not shards,” said Albert 3-D. “And, yes, I want you to sort them all.”
“That’s what I meant—sherds,” said Max-Ernest, embarrassed to be caught in such an obvious mistake (a mistake I’m sure you would never make).
The ceramic sherds-not-shards had been excavated from Dr. Amun’s tomb and had been brought from Egypt to make use of the museum’s new magnetic-imaging equipment. The three friends’ job: to sit on stools and separate the sherds-not-shards into piles by size and color—and by nothing else.
“You might find some funny drawings on some of the sherds. The Egyptians liked cartoons, and a large number were found in Dr. Amun’s tomb. But please ignore them,” Albert 3-D warned. “Don’t try to put the pieces back together—you’ll just mess up everything.”
With those encouraging words, Albert 3-D plunked himself down on the other side of the room to do some paperwork and let his prisoners get to work.

Their task turned out to be not unlike the early, sorting stage of a jigsaw puzzle—the main difference being that they were never supposed to go beyond that stage. Not surprisingly, this limitation proved extremely frustrating for Max-Ernest, who was expert at jigsaw puzzles, and for Cass, whose nature demanded that she investigate any mystery put in front of her. As for Yo-Yoji, he didn’t like limits in general. Still, they were terrified of not graduating and didn’t want to get into any further trouble, so they tried to do as they were told.

Albert 3-D hadn’t said anything about talking, however.
“Yo, anybody else check Glob’s blog last night?” asked Yo-Yoji. The others shook their heads.
“So you don’t know what happened to Amber, then?”
“Should I care?” asked Cass as she examined a sherd decorated with a bird painted in black.
Could that be an ibis? she wondered, before putting it off to the side. “Haven’t you noticed that she’s been gone for a week?”
“No. Why, did you miss her?” Cass teased. “No!” Yo-Yoji glared.
Max-Ernest held up a sherd with the image of a scarab. “Hey, did you guys know a scarab was the same thing as a dung beetle?”
“Awesome,” said Yo-Yoji. “You guys want to hear about Amber or not?” He looked at them to make sure he had their full attention.
“OK, what happened?” asked Max-Ernest. “She went blind.”
“Blind?!” the other two echoed in chorus.
“Well, sort of blind—she could still see light and stuff,” Yo-Yoji amended, enjoying the effect his words were having. “And it was only for a day.”
“Did she get a chemical burn? Or was it viral?” asked Cass, her mind racing through all the scenarios she’d studied.
Yo-Yoji shook his head. “Nothing like that. Glob said that Veronica said that Amber had some mystery disease or something—whatever it was, the next morning she woke up and she couldn’t see a thing.”
“That’s awful,” said Cass, although, as everybody knew, she had wished far worse on Amber in the past. “And I’ll bet anything that she’s never even done any sensory-deprivation training.”
(Going blind was one of Cass’s top ten fears—above malaria and below cerebral hemorrhage; she trained for it constantly.)
“Glob says it’s a huge secret. Course, that didn’t keep him from writing about it,” Yo-Yoji snickered.
Albert 3-D looked up from his desk. “Why doesn’t it sound like you guys are working?” “Sorry!” they cried in unison.
After that, they were quiet—for at least three minutes.
Then Yo-Yoji broke the silence again: “Hey, is this one of those cartoons he was talking about?” He held up a largish sherd on which someone had drawn a mouse sitting on a throne. “The mouse is supposed to be a pharaoh, right?”
“Well, he’s sitting on a throne and wearing a pharaoh’s crown and beard, so, yeah, I would say so,” said Max-Ernest.
“OK, Mr. Knows-Everything-About-Shards, I mean sherds,” said Yo-Yoji. “If it’s so obvious, what’s that coming out of his ear?”
“It’s the beak of an ibis,” said Cass. “Look.”
Cass took Yo-Yoji’s sherd from him and placed it next to the sherd she had put aside. “I noticed this one before.…”
Reunited, the two pieces of pottery showed an ibis standing beside the mouse pharaoh’s throne and whispering in his ear. The mouse was pounding on his scepter, his whiskers twitching angrily—not a very flattering portrayal of a potentate.

Cass felt a familiar tingle in her ears. She had no doubt what the illustration meant. “So, do you guys still not think the mummy was him?” she whispered.
Before they could respond, Albert 3-D stood up, shaking his head. “You guys are hopeless. I can see why you’re always getting in trouble with your principal.” He smiled. “I like that about you.”
Reminding them to focus on their work, he told them he would be leaving them alone for twenty minutes or so. The exhibit would be moving to the Cairo Hotel in Las Vegas in a few days, and there were many details to arrange.

As soon as their not-so-strict-after-all chaperone had left, Yo-Yoji turned back to Cass. “So you think the ibis is the doctor who discovered the… it?”
Cass nodded. “Look, he’s even whispering in the pharaoh’s ear.”
“And that means he’s Dr. Amun, the mummy right here in this museum? Ridiculous!” said Yo-Yoji, amazed at the coincidence. “It’s so ridiculous it’s re-sick-ulous!”
“I told you—there was a mark from the ibis ring on the mummy’s finger,” said Cass, pulling the ibis ring out of her pocket to show Yo-Yoji. “It has to be him.”
(On the way to the museum that afternoon, Cass had filled Yo-Yoji in on their findings about the ibis and the Secret.)
“Can I see?” Yo-Yoji, who’d never seen the ring up close before, reached for it—then jerked his hand back in surprise. “Whoa! Did you feel that shock?”
Cass nodded, rattled. “It’s the ring. It… buzzes sometimes when you touch it. I don’t know why.”
Max-Ernest looked curiously at it. “That’s strange. They definitely didn’t have batteries in ancient Egypt.”
“We can think about it later,” said Cass, slipping the ring back into her pocket. “We don’t have much time—”
“Uh, time for what?” asked Max-Ernest suspiciously. “To go look at the mummy, of course,” said Cass.
Max-Ernest looked at her in alarm. “Right now? The museum’s closed.” “Yeah, it’s perfect. Nobody’s around to bother us. The exhibit is right upstairs.”
“Cool,” said Yo-Yoji, who was so antsy after forty-five minutes in the Restoration Room that he would have accepted any excuse to leave.
“Albert 3-D is going to come back any second,” said Max-Ernest, aghast. “We’re in enough trouble already!”
“I know, and I want to graduate as much as you do,” said Cass. “But think about it: the papyrus and the ring, the only clues we have about the… thing, were both stolen from Amun’s grave. Maybe there’s something else in his sarcophagus, or wrapped up with him or something, that the tomb robbers didn’t get.”
“So now you want to go rob his grave?”
“No, just look at it!” said Cass, exasperated. “We’ll never have a chance like this again.” “For all we know, it’s totally dark up there,” said Max-Ernest.
“Are you scared?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Of what you guys will do, yes! Anyway, how do we know the alarm’s not on?”
“They don’t put the alarms on until later at night,” said Cass. “Too many people are walking around before that.” “You asked?”
“I thought you wanted to help,” said Cass, avoiding the question. She pulled a small penlight out of her pocket, ready to go.
“Now I know for sure you planned this,” said Max-Ernest. “What do you mean?”
“The flashlight.”
“I always carry a flashlight.”
“Yeah, in your backpack. But that one is the extra one you only take when we’re going on a mission.”
“Fine, you busted me. Are you in or aren’t you?”
Max-Ernest looked from Cass to Yo-Yoji and back again.
He was still sore at Cass. She seemed to want his help only when it was convenient for her. Otherwise, the Secret was hers alone to discover. And yet, if this truly was their one chance to discover it—her one chance to discover it, he corrected himself—he had no choice. He had to go along. In the end, the Secret was bigger than either of them.
“I’m in,” he said.

CHAPTER EIGHT
A SCREAM IN THE DARKNESS 

In order to get upstairs, they first had to walk through the Osteology and Taxidermy Room—in other words, the room in which the bones of a raptor would be reassembled, or a lifeless raccoon stuffed. Enough animal heads lined the walls to fill a dozen hunting lodges. In one corner, there were so many hair and whisker samples it could have been a hair salon for woodland animals. In another corner, carefully labeled little bones sat in boxes, like parts at an auto-repair shop. Bigger bones lay in rows on tables, and three partly assembled dinosaur skeletons struck poses around the room.
Yo-Yoji picked up the femur of a large mammal off a table. “You think if I toss this, any of them will run after it?”
Like most museums, the Natural History Museum had many more items in storage than on display. After our friends left the Osteology and Taxidermy Room, they found themselves weaving through racks of Native American tribal garments and headdresses, bows and arrows and other assorted weapons, even a tepee hanging upside down from the ceiling. Next were the seal coats and harpoons of Eskimos, and a collection of pans and tools and other memorabilia from the gold rush, followed by a pair of nineteenth-century sea-diving suits that looked like antique astronauts.
After that, the collections became too eclectic to categorize. It’s very likely that not even the curators of the museum knew everything they had.
An unmarked door opened into a stairwell that led to the museum upstairs. Quietly, they crept up the stairs, hoping nobody was waiting for them at the top.
“Aargh!” Cass spun around when she reached the landing above. “Max-Ernest, I’m going to kill you if you tap me like that one more time!” she said in an angry whisper.
From several feet behind, Max-Ernest looked at her in confusion. “What do you mean? I didn’t—”
Yo-Yoji nodded. “I can back him up. Right there the whole time.”
Cass’s ears turned pink. “Oh. Sorry. I guess I’m just a little jumpy. Come on, let’s go.” She brushed past a potted palm and headed toward the mummy exhibit.

Just as Max-Ernest had feared, in contrast to the fluorescent-bright hallways below, the galleries upstairs were barely lit. Aside from a few dim lights here and there, the museum was dark. Not so dark you couldn’t see your own hands. But too dark to read the labels on the displays, let alone to read hieroglyphs.
Cass turned on her flashlight. The beam landed on the bottom of the sign introducing the exhibit.
“Hey, did you guys see that before?” Max-Ernest asked, peering at the sign. “‘Exhibition made possible by a generous grant from Solar-Zero LLC.’”
“So?” asked Cass, impatient to get to the mummy.
“It’s just a weird name, that’s all. If they’re a solar-power company, why zero?” “Maybe they make sunglasses, like zero UVA rays?” suggested Yo-Yoji.
“All I know is my flashlight is solar, and it’s going to lose its power in a minute.”
Cass pushed ahead into the exhibit, her flashlight thrust forward as if she meant to ward off any attackers along with the darkness.

If you’ve ever explored a crypt in the middle of the night (and knowing you, you have), then I don’t need to tell you how unnerving it is to see a flashlight beam land on the face of a corpse. Imagine, then, what a mummy might look like. Then multiply that by about fifty (the approximate number of mummies in the exhibit, including cats, dogs, birds, and crocodiles). For all her bravery, Cass soon stopped waving the flashlight around and kept it pointed at the floor.
Ahead of them, in the center of the gallery, Dr. Amun’s glass chamber glinted forebodingly. “What was that?” Cass whispered.
“What?” asked Max-Ernest. “Didn’t you hear footsteps?” “I thought that was you.”
“I thought it was a guard,” said Yo-Yoji.
They all stood still for a moment. But there was no other sound. Slowly, gingerly, they tiptoed toward the glass chamber.
The door was slightly ajar. Cass entered first, and by the time Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji let themselves in, she was already standing over the sarcophagus.
Before they caught up with her, they heard something they’d rarely heard in all the dangerous and death-defying adventures they’d shared with Cass.
The sound of Cass screaming.

No, this isn’t a new chapter, I’m just prolonging the…

s u s p e n s e.

I guess that’s enough.

Well, maybe just one more…

m o m e n t.

OK, here’s what happens next:

With Cass’s scream echoing in their ears, Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji ran to where she was standing by the mystery mummy’s open sarcophagus.
“What happened?” asked Yo-Yoji. “Are you all right?”
“No…” Cass looked unharmed, but she was breathing hard and clutching her stomach. “Did something scare you?” asked Max-Ernest. “Was there a rat?”
“No, nothing like that,” said Cass, her ears red with embarrassment. (She did not think of herself as the kind of girl who screamed in fright.) “I was just a little surprised, that’s all. Look!”
Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji looked down and saw— Nothing.
All that was left in the sarcophagus was a little spider crawling across the sandy bottom. The mummy was gone.

CHAPTER NINE
BLOODY FINGERS 

By the time Cass closed the door to her bedroom, she hardly had any fingernails left. She’d chewed them down to the nubs. Two of her fingertips were bleeding, gruesome reminders of the ancient finger that had signaled the beginning of her latest troubles. Her fingers hurt, but she didn’t mind the pain: she deserved it.
She’d never felt worse.
Never more guilty. She was the one who’d broken off the mummy’s finger. She was the one who had encouraged her friends to sneak back into the exhibit, making it look as though they had stolen the mummy. She was the one who had betrayed the trust of Albert 3-D.
Never more anxious. She didn’t know what punishment was in store for her friends and herself. Expulsion? Jail time? Whatever it was, not graduating from middle school was likely to be the least of it.
Never more afraid. Somebody had taken the mummy. Somebody who knew it was the mummy of the man who’d discovered the Secret. Somebody ruthless and disdainful of the consequences. Somebody who very likely knew about Cass and her friends as well.
Worst of all, she, Cass, was no closer to finding the Secret. With the mummy gone, she was farther away from the Secret than ever.
As she sat down on her bed, she looked up at all the old photos and magazine articles that covered her walls. They depicted disaster and destruction of countless varieties. Floods. Fires. Earthquakes. Explosions. Storms. Plagues. Animal attacks. Heat waves and droughts. Water and power shortages. War. Famine. Asteroid impacts. Meteorites. The list went on. But nothing that anticipated her current predicament.
She’d spent her whole life preparing for sudden, unexpected events over which she would have little or no control. And yet here she was, dealing with a calamity that was almost entirely of her own making.
Why did she have to break the mummy’s finger? Why did she have to insist on going back upstairs? Why couldn’t she ever leave well enough alone?
She, Cass, was the disaster. Instead of preparing for earthquakes, she thought, she should have been preparing for herself.
Her mother opened the door without knocking.
“Albert called,” she said, looking not at Cass but at some invisible point in the distance. “He’s very disappointed in you and your friends.”
“No kidding.”
“He wants to see us all first thing in the morning.” “What about school?”
“Tomorrow is Sunday.” “Oh yeah.”
“Besides, you’ll be lucky if you’re allowed back to school.” “I told you we didn’t—”
“Save it, Cassandra.” Her mom slammed the door shut.
Cass stared at it. Her mother had said almost nothing all night—as if she had given up on Cass altogether. Cass would much have preferred a good fight. She knew her mother thought that she and her friends had taken the mummy. If her mother had come right out and said so, then Cass could have defended herself and had the pleasure of being angry at all the horribly unfair and totally unforgivable things her mother said. Her mother’s silence was excruciating.
Fully dressed, Cass crawled under the covers, ready to abandon herself to tears and self-pity. But she couldn’t. It wasn’t in her nature.
Unbidden, the image of Pietro, beloved leader of the Terces Society, entered her head. He always told her how much he believed in her, the Secret Keeper. She couldn’t let him down. Not now.
Sit up, she told herself. You’re a survivalist. Think like one. What to do?
She pulled the ibis ring out of her pocket and put it on her finger, hoping it might supply an answer.
Just a short time earlier, the ring had made her feel so confident. Then there was the excitement of finding the mummy, the so-called Dr. Amun. For a moment, it had seemed like such a breakthrough. The man who had discovered the Secret—what could bring her closer to discovering the Secret herself? Now Amun was missing. And the ring was seeming more mysterious than helpful.
It buzzed almost uncomfortably, and she took it off. What made it do that? she wondered. Did the ring have a more definite power? A clearer purpose?
She inspected the ring for the tenth or twentieth time. There was no inscription on the inside of the band; it didn’t say TO MUMMY WITH LOVE or UNTIL THE AFTERLIFE DO US PART or THANKS FOR THE MUMMERIES or anything like that, not even in hieroglyphs. The only hieroglyph on the ring was the ibis carved into the blue stone. At first Cass had wondered if maybe there was a secret compartment under the ibis, but the top of the ring didn’t screw off and there didn’t seem to be any latch or hinge.
Giving up on the ring inspection, she searched through her desk drawer and located a thin gold chain her grandfathers had given her as a birthday present a few years earlier. She’d never worn it before (as a rule, she considered necklaces worse than frivolous; they were a choking hazard), but now she threaded the chain through the ring and hung it around her neck.
Far from a good-luck charm, the ring was beginning to seem more like a talisman of doom, but she had a distinct feeling it was safest to keep the mysterious gold artifact near her at all times.

THE RABBIT, THE CAT, AND THE CARROT:
A LOOK BEHIND THE SCENES OF THE SECRET SERIES

PB'S OFFICE

...and after Max-Ernest solved the hardest puzzle on earth and saved her life against all odds, Cass looked him in the eyes and said, quote, "Max-Ernest you're a hero. And my best friend. And really funny. Forget everything I said. I apologize."

Quiche, do you have that?
"I apologize"-with a z.
Yeah, I got it.
But...?
But (a) it's not true. That girl never apologized for anything. And (b) the one who owes an apology is you... to me!
Is this because I cut your carrot rations?
How would you like it if I stopped letting you eat chocolate?
You were turning orange!
So? It's my favorite color... Besides, how could any rabbit write with that thing licking licking licking all day?
I am a cat and I have a name.
Oh, that's right, what is it? Cocoo?
Cocoo?
Of course, Cocoo... Cocoo...rhymes with "Meow, meow, gee, how I love the taste of fur!"
Will you please give the bunny a carrot already?
But I just gave him half my chocolate.
How many times do I have to tell you? RABBITS DON'T LIKE CHOCOLATE!
OK, OK, I just don't understand...
One word: Easter.
Easter?
All those chocolate bunnies?
Would you like to see yourself eaten in effigy every year by hordes of ravenous children?
Fine, no chocolate. But Quiche, I was on a roll!
If you want a carrot, start typing.
You call that a roll? I call it self-aggrandizing drivel.
Why can't you write a real book, like--
Oh, here we go- Watership Down again! The only book he ever read all the way without chewing...
That's it.
I'm leaving!
Here, bunny, bunny, bunny!
Trust me, that never works.
Please, Quiche, I can't write this book without you!
Oh, so now he admits it!
I'm beggin you-
Is that all I'm worth to you?
Fine-
Quiche! Aargh!
MUNCH. MUNCH. MUNCH.
BONK.
BONK.
BONK.
MEEEEOW
And what if I couldn't type?
Would you just let me rot in this hat forever?
That's not fair. You know I love you, little buddy. We've been through thick and thin together.
Mostly thin. If you had it your way, I'd be starving.
We'll both be starving if we don't get this book finished.
Remember when we were on the road? You and me and that pigeon you used to dust with baby powder so he looked like a dove?...
Face it, Quiche. Magic isn't our thing. We weren't any good. They threw vegetables at us!
I know-I've never eaten so well.
Can we please go back to writing?
You know why you are such a terrible magician? Because magicians aren't supposed to reveal their tricks. And you-
Don't tell me: I can't keep a secret.
Well, at least we can agree about something.
END

CHAPTER TEN
A THING

Daniel-not-Danielle had a very mixed reaction when he heard about the mummy being stolen. He knew he should be angry—it was his father’s exhibit, after all—and yet, when he thought about it, he had to admit he wasn’t angry at the thieves so much as jealous. He almost wished that he had been with them.
That he had stolen the mummy.
Not really, of course. He’d had enough of mummies to last a lifetime—and well into the afterlife. But maybe that was what was so thrilling about the thought of absconding with one.
Mummies weren’t just his father’s job; they were his father’s hobby and, Daniel-not-Danielle sometimes felt, they were his father’s family as well. His father collected what he called “mummy-abilia,” and their apartment was full of modern-day archaeological artifacts like Halloween mummy costumes and candy Gummy Mummies; mummy key chains and coffee mugs and salt and pepper shakers; toy mummies that unraveled in long strips or glowed in the dark or even, in one case, walked and talked; posters of mummy movies and TV shows; and, most precious of all, mummy dummies and props.
His father’s prized possession: a wax hand from the 1940 movie The Mummy’s Hand. Once, when Daniel-not-Danielle was younger, he had made the mistake of taking it to school to scare his friends. It was the angriest he had ever seen his normally easygoing father.
Until now.
Today was Sunday, and they should have been having pancakes at the diner down the street, followed by a trip to the newsstand to look at comic books—their Sunday morning ritual for the last four years. (Pancakes and comic books were among the few things both he and his father liked, although Daniel-not-Danielle preferred blueberry pancakes, and his father the buckwheat variety; his father preferred DC Comics, and Daniel-not-Danielle the Marvel lineup.) There would be no pancakes this morning, however. Daniel-not-Danielle had to content himself with cold cereal.
His father had warned him not to eavesdrop on the meeting, but his father also had suggested he do his homework; and, as his father knew, Daniel-not-Danielle always did his homework at the kitchen table. Was it his fault that the kitchen was next to the living room and that he could hear every word said in the meeting, whether he was trying to or not? And if by chance he happened accidentally to peek through the keyhole in the door, and therefore he could see almost everything, too, well, how could he be blamed for that?
The living room was small and filled with Albert 3-D’s mummy-abilia. Nobody looked comfortable. Max-Ernest was sitting on the couch, squeezed between his parents. His forehead was red and furrowed as if he were trying with all his might to keep his parents apart or maybe to pull them together—it was hard to tell which. Cass was pacing back and forth in front of her mother, who was sitting tensely in the rocking chair. Every time Cass passed by, the chair rocked and her mother grimaced with annoyance. Of all the people in the room, Yo-Yoji looked the most relaxed, leaning against the wall. But even his jaws tensed whenever his father or mother, standing huddled beside him, said something in his ear.
Daniel-not-Danielle’s father, Albert 3-D, was sitting on his desk chair, wheeled in from his office. A bowl of Gummy Mummies lay untouched on the table.
“Let me ask you this,” said Cass after the initial introductions had been made. “If we stole the mummy, where did we hide it? How could we get it out of the museum before the security guard found us? It’s not like we put it in our pockets!”
Unable to see her face from his vantage point in the kitchen, Daniel-not-Danielle nevertheless thought she sounded very adult and forceful. Score one for his friends.
“Besides, why would we even do it in the first place?” asked Yo-Yoji, jumping in. “You think we would steal something like that just for laughs? It’s way too hairy. We don’t want to go to jail!”
Good point, thought Daniel-not-Danielle. If it was just about a prank, why not put a pair of Groucho Marx glasses on a mummy? Or a Hawaiian shirt and flower lei, maybe. Stealing a mummy was pretty extreme.
“Actually, that’s not really an argument in our defense,” Max-Ernest cautioned. “There are lots of other reasons we might have done it besides laughs. People collect all kinds of things. Bugs. Bones. Stamps. A mummy would be priceless to some people. I know for certain that you could sell—”
Cass and Yo-Yoji glared at him. He trailed off.
Watching through the keyhole, Daniel-not-Danielle stifled a giggle. Max-Ernest never knew when not to talk.
All three of them had such distinct personalities, Daniel-not-Danielle reflected. They all had their things. Max-Ernest: hyper-talkative, relentlessly going on about jokes and magic. Cass: a “survivalist,” or whatever it was she called herself. Yo-Yoji: the cool guy with the sneaker collection, the guitarist.
He, Daniel-not-Danielle, didn’t have a thing. Comic books didn’t count; almost everybody liked them. His closest thing to a thing was his hair. But his dreadlocks didn’t signify anything about his personality; it was just hair. Besides, his father had dreadlocks, too. Sometimes, Daniel-not-Danielle felt as if he were one of a group of superheroes, each with a unique superpower—except for him. The guy who had no thing.
Maybe that was part of it. Stealing a mummy—that would have been a thing. Certainly, it was a crazy enough caper to be worthy of a comic book. On the other hand, mummy stealing—who would want that to be their thing? In stories and movies about mummies, tomb robbers were always portrayed as sniveling, sneaky creatures, no better than rats. Daniel-not-Danielle certainly didn’t want to be one of them.
“Hold on, guys—let’s talk this through slowly,” said Albert 3-D. He looked haggard. As Daniel-not-Danielle knew, his father had been up all night—puttering, pacing, swearing—handling the fallout from the theft. “This is a very big deal. There could be an international scandal—we’re going to have to alert the Egyptian Embassy. The museum director wanted to give the police your names, but I begged him to wait until I spoke to you again. That’s why you’re here—I’m hoping you can shed some kind of light on what happened.”

As Albert 3-D laid it out, the case against his son’s friends was very strong:
a) They had a history of vandalizing the mummy (whether intentionally or accidentally).
b) There was video footage of them entering the exhibit around the time the mummy was stolen.
c) Nobody else was seen entering the exhibit that night.
d) In addition, there was an eyewitness—a security guard—who had caught them lingering around the mummy’s empty sarcophagus.

“Yeah, but did the guard see us take the mummy?” asked Yo-Yoji. “At any point in the video, did you actually see us take it?”
Albert 3-D shook his head.
“No, he didn’t, because we didn’t do it,” said Cass. “We don’t steal things!” “That’s not what your principal says,” said Albert 3-D.
“Yeah, but that wasn’t really stealing,” said Max-Ernest. “She’s just talking about the time we—”
His friends glared at him again. Max-Ernest switched course. “The point is—all the evidence is circumstantial. You said we were the only ones seen entering. Was anyone seen exiting? Maybe somebody could have come in when the museum was open, and they could have hidden in the room until after closing time—and then taken the mummy? How ’bout that?”
“The video is a little… inconclusive,” Albert 3-D admitted. “Do you have any reason to believe somebody stayed? Did you see anybody? If you speak now, it will be better for all of us.”
“Does that mean you saw somebody exiting with the mummy in the video?” asked Yo-Yoji. “Not with the mummy, no,” said Albert 3-D.
“But there was someone else?” Yo-Yoji insisted.
Albert 3-D hesitated. “I’m really not supposed to say—” “So you think we’re his accomplices?” asked Max-Ernest. “That’s one theory—”
“Can we see the video?” asked Cass.
“Sorry. I was very specifically instructed not to share it.”
“That isn’t fair,” said Max-Ernest. “Without all the evidence, how can we mount our defense?”
“Now, slow down, son,” said Max-Ernest’s father. “If the museum doesn’t press charges, the police can’t investigate, isn’t that right?”
“Don’t get ahead of yourself, Max-Ernest,” said Max-Ernest’s mother. “The police can launch an investigation only if the museum presses charges, correct?”
“It makes no difference,” said Albert 3-D, only slightly put off by the repetitive nature of the questions. (He had met Max-Ernest’s parents before.) “If the museum doesn’t press charges, the Egyptians probably will.”
“So should we be hiring attorneys for our kids, Albert?” asked Yo-Yoji’s father. “It’s not a bad idea.”
“Nobody’s pressing charges,” said Cass’s mother. “These kids will tell you everything.
They’ll get your mummy back for you, I promise.”
“But, Mom, we don’t know anything!” said Cass, outraged.
“Sweetheart, didn’t you hear what he said? They looked at the video footage. If you didn’t take it yourselves, you must know something.”
“I can’t believe you won’t believe me—your own daughter! Why don’t you ask Albert 3-D what he was doing when the mummy was stolen? He’s the one who collects mummies.”
“Cassandra!” Her mother glared at her.
“Well, it’s true. Look around you. And he probably had more opportunity than anyone—” “Cass, please be quiet before you make things much worse for yourself,” said her mother.

“Albert, you’ll have to excuse my daughter. She’s a little upset.” “I understand.”
“Think about how a police record would affect these kids’ futures. Can you just give us a little time?” Cass’s mother looked hopefully at Albert 3-D.
“I’ll try to hold off the dogs, but I can’t promise,” said Albert 3-D. “The exhibit is supposed to move to Las Vegas in three days. If the mummy doesn’t turn up before then, I’m afraid the police are going to have more than a few questions.”
After that, everybody spoke at once.

In the kitchen, Daniel-not-Danielle stewed. He had assumed his friends were guilty—there seemed to be no other explanation—but now he had his doubts.
Either they were innocent or they were better actors than he thought they were. Max-Ernest, especially. Daniel-not-Danielle didn’t think Max-Ernest could lie about something like this to save his life.
If they didn’t do it, who did?
For a second, he wondered if Cass’s wild accusation about his father could be right. But he could think of no real motive. Contrary to Cass’s suggestion, the last thing his father would want to add to his collection was a real mummy. His father had more than enough of those at work.
While people continued to discuss the missing mummy in the living room, Daniel-not-Danielle came to a decision. As quietly as he could, he walked down the hallway to his father’s home office. His father’s desk was covered with books and journals and notepads, but he didn’t have to look for very long: the security disk was right on top of a pile of magazines. He could tell what it was because the museum’s name was on the label, along with the previous day’s date.
Quickly, he inserted the disk into his father’s computer and started to save the contents of the disk onto the hard drive. In a moment, he would condense the file and e-mail it to his friends.
The wax hand from The Mummy’s Hand sat on a shelf right next to his father’s desk, a silent witness to his little act of digital thievery. Daniel-not-Danielle gave the hand a good stare and defiantly stuck out his tongue. In his imagination, the hand responded with a wave of acquiescence. Copying the video was the most legally questionable thing Daniel-not-Danielle had ever done. And yet he almost thought his father would want him to do it.
It wasn’t stealing a mummy. It wasn’t even aiding and abetting the stealing of a mummy. In a way, it was the opposite, he thought as he pressed Send: he was helping his friends prove they hadn’t stolen a mummy—perhaps even helping them solve the crime.
In comic books, it was usually the villains who pressed buttons—to set off bombs, for example. The heroes raced to stop them. Nonetheless, Daniel-not-Danielle felt, it was a start.
Daniel-not-Danielle: button pusher, crime fighter. Maybe that would be his thing.

CHAPTER ELEVEN
VIDEO STARS

Who’s there? Show me your hands!”
The security video ended there, with the nervous museum guard advancing on the three of them, his hand on his nightstick. In the center of the frame was a frozen Max-Ernest, spooked by the appearance of the guard.
It was Sunday night and—thanks to Daniel-not-Danielle—Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji had all been watching the video simultaneously on their computers at home, messaging each other at frequent intervals.

guitarsamurai: dude, you look like you saw a ghost.
survivor3000: he always looks like that, it’s the hair.
juniorjester: u guys going to make fun of me all night? thought we were trying to avoid getting arrested.
guitarsamurai: just practicing for juvenile hall. we’re going to have to entertain ourselves there.
survivor3000: ok, let’s get serious. my mom’s going to check on me any sec. I can feel it.

They knew what happened next, after the video ended: the guard’s relief when he realized it was just the three kids Albert 3-D had introduced earlier. His scolding them for wandering around the gallery unsupervised. Then his shock when he discovered the mummy was missing. His insistence that they not move until the head of security arrived along with Albert 3-D.
Et cetera. Et cetera.
It was what happened earlier that they had questions about. They decided to watch the video again from the beginning.
As Albert 3-D had said, the video was “inconclusive.” Even so, it was intriguing. The video presented a fish-eye view of the mummy exhibit’s largest room, with the mystery mummy’s glass chamber in the center. The chamber looked much farther away than it actually was, like a reflection in a rearview mirror. At the same time, the camera’s night-vision technology lent the black-and-white video an eerie quality, almost as though they were seeing the images in negative.
The video, which was coded in twenty-four-hour military time, spanned roughly three hours—from the moment the museum closed to the moment the kids discovered that the mummy was missing—but it was sped up to play in under ten minutes. The first three-quarters or so showed almost no movement at all. Then,

guitarsamurai: hey, what was that? wait—*is rewinding*
guitarsamurai: there, at 19:36:15… those stars—I didn’t see them before.…
survivor 3000: oh, you mean like those lights on the glass?

juniorjester: that’s just reflection.
guitarsamurai: yeah, but of what? the mummy’s ghost!? lol
survivor3000: ha-ha.
guitarsamurai: seriously, it’s not yr flashlight—we don’t come for another three min. and guard wasn’t there yet. can’t be like car lights or anything from outside—no window.
survivor3000: maybe the thief’s flashlight?
guitarsamurai: maybe.
juniorjester: a flashlight would just be a single light, not like a bunch of little ones—unless maybe it bounced off some stuff? but there wasn’t anything reflective besides glass.
survivor3000: he could have been wearing a headlamp and holding a flashlight. or there could have been somebody else with one, too.
juniorjester: there are more lights than that.
guitarsamurai: all right, forget the lights. let’s move on to the guy.

They each forwarded to the man who exited the glass chamber about three minutes before they arrived. Several times already, they had watched this shadowy figure walk out of the exhibit—and out of the picture frame—but they hadn’t yet come up with a plausible explanation for his actions. Presumably, this was the man (or, possibly, woman—you couldn’t see the face in the darkness) who had stolen the mummy. And yet there appeared to be no way he could have the mummy with him. His hands were empty. He carried no bag. He wore no backpack. And it seemed hardly credible that the mummy was hidden in his clothes. The man looked too skinny, too gaunt. Surely, there would have been at least one telltale lump if he had slipped the mummy under his shirt.
What’s more, he was never seen entering the mummy’s chamber, only leaving it.

guitarsamurai: hey, I have an idea—what if mummy was stolen earlier in the day, and this guy lied down in the mummy’s place—then got up later after exhibit closed?
survivor3000: yeah, that fits. Kind of like putting pillows in your bed so your parents will think you’re sleeping. m-e?
juniorjester: *thinking*
survivor3000: take your time, we’ve got all night… not.
juniorjester: ok, done. sorry, not realistic. that would mean (a) even with all those people coming to see the show, nobody noticed mummy being stolen, and then (b) afterward nobody noticed that there was a living guy instead of a mummy in the sarcophagus.
guitarsamurai: why u have to be such a doubter, man? maybe he had really good Halloween makeup?
survivor3000: m-e is right. remember what the mummy looked like? that would be hard to fake.
survivor3000: but it’s a theory, anyway—maybe enough to get us out of trouble?

Max-Ernest was torn. In some ways, Yo-Yoji’s theory was a good one; it reminded him of one of those locked-room mysteries that seem impossible to solve but then turn out to have a nifty resolution that’s been staring you in the face the whole time. Still, he didn’t like the theory
—and not just because it was Yo-Yoji’s and not his. Something was nagging at him. He decided to apply the deductive reasoning of the master of the locked-room mystery, Sherlock Holmes.

juniorjester: maybe we’re looking at this the wrong way.
guitarsamurai: ok…?
juniorjester: well, Sherlock Holmes always said, when you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
survivor3000: yeah, so?
juniorjester: what do we actually know? that somebody walked out of the mummy chamber. and that later the mummy was missing, right?
juniorjester: and nobody walked IN except us.
survivor3000: get to the point.
juniorjester: you know how it seems like the problem is that the thief walks out but he doesn’t have the mummy with him? what if it’s actually the reverse?
survivor3000: what do you mean?
juniorjester: what if there wasn’t a break-IN at all? what if there was… a breakOUT?
guitarsamurai: just say it, dude.
juniorjester: ok, ok, what if what we’re looking at is not a thief walking out without a mummy but the mummy walking out without a thief?

Max-Ernest stared at his computer screen, unable to believe what he’d just written. He, Max-Ernest, with the logical mind. But that was the conclusion that logic had drawn him to.

Cass and Yo-Yoji seemed unable to believe it as well.

survivor3000: u saying what I think ur saying? guitarsamurai: ok, when are u going to say april fools? 
juniorjester: that was a few weeks ago.
survivor3000: u serious?
juniorjester: I’m serious. I think. No, wait, that would mean I was completely crazy.… I don’t know.
guitarsamurai: just a sec, I’m going to get a screen capture, then enlarge it.

Yo-Yoji enlarged the image of the man almost to the point where he was more pixel than person. His face was still too dark to see, but something near the bottom of the image caught Yo-Yoji’s eye and made him hold his breath. Without alerting his friends, he e-mailed each of them a copy of the enlarged image with this subject line: LOOK BEHIND HIS RIGHT FOOT.
That was where the strip of linen could be seen trailing from the man’s pant leg. The man leaving the exhibit was the mummy. The mummy was walking.

CHAPTER TWELVE
A HEAD WRAPPED IN BANDAGES 

Elsewhere that evening, in a luxurious hotel suite, a beautiful woman in a shimmering white gown looked out a tall window at the city lights below. Her face, reflected in the glass, was as pale as snow, her eyes as cold as ice. Her blonde hair, shiny and unmoving, curled outward at the ends like the petals of a flower frozen in mid-bloom. And yet at the waist, her body curved inward to an almost impossible degree, as if all the air had been squeezed out of her, along with all the warmth. Only her hands, hidden by long white gloves, moved even a tiny bit. They were splayed on the window, trembling slightly, as if she wanted nothing more than to grasp the city below and make it her own.
Yes, it was Ms. Mauvais.*  
“Tell me why you are here,” she said, her voice as soft and comforting as shattered glass. “Surely you have not risen from the dead just to say hello?”
The only response was labored breathing—like the sound of a lung patient on a respirator—and a faint gasp of helplessness.
Then, as if from far away, came a voice. It was dry and raspy and muffled. Each word was a cry of despair. “I… need… your… help.”
Ms. Mauvais regarded the reflection behind her own. Over her shoulder, a head was just visible, wrapped in long white bandages. Haunted eyes stared out between the strips of linen.
“Yes, my darling creature?” “It’s… my… skin.”
“That’s why you came all the way to see me? A few blemishes?”
“Not just a few!” the creature protested. “It’s really bad. I can’t live with myself.” Ms. Mauvais turned to face her visitor.
Below the mummy-like head were the clothes of a fashionable young girl: a twin hearts T-shirt, skinny jeans, and ballet flats.
“Now, now—of course you can’t, darling. Your skin is your skin. It’s irreplaceable… almost.” Ms. Mauvais laughed mirthlessly. “Nothing is of more intimate concern than one’s outward appearance. I myself once crossed two continents to have a single wrinkle removed.” She pointed to her plaster-smooth forehead. “You can’t see it now, can you?”
The girl standing in front of Ms. Mauvais shook her head—as best she could, given the bandages crisscrossing her face.
Ms. Mauvais regarded her skeptically. “Amanda, isn’t it?”
“Amber,” said the girl. The bandages puffed in and out with each syllable. “Of course, how silly of me. Amanda. It’s so nice… not to see you again.”
“Please help me. Please. My doctor gave me something, but it almost made me blind.” Amber started to sob.
“You realize crying is only going to make it worse—it reddens the cheeks,” said Ms. Mauvais without a trace of sympathy. “Well, let’s have a look—”
Amber slowly unpeeled the bandages and revealed her face, leaving the strips in a sticky heap on the carpet.
It was a face that would have struck terror into the hearts of boys and girls of a certain age everywhere.
The acne started at Amber’s hairline and didn’t stop until it reached her collarbone; it covered so much of her face that only her eyeballs were unblemished. It was as if her acne had acne. There were whiteheads and blackheads and big, bloody redheads. There were pimples on top of pimples on top of pimples. Some were deeply buried like dormant volcanoes. Others had just risen to the surface, fiery mountains aching to burst. Still others had already erupted, leaving trails of zit-lava smeared across Amber’s epidermal layer—gooey evidence of the tumultuous geothermal activity underneath. The few bits of clear skin that remained were red and raw from all the scratching and scraping and squeezing and tweezing. It was painful to look at her.
Expressionless, Ms. Mauvais studied Amber for a moment.
“Thank you. That’s enough.” She motioned for Amber to put the bandages back on. “It’s worse than I imagined. I hope those bandages hold up. You may want to put a paper bag over your head just in case.”
“Can you… fix me?” asked Amber. She did her best to rewrap herself, using the window as a mirror.
“Can I… or will I?”
There was a knock on the door. An exceptionally tall and broad woman—she could have been a basketball player or a linebacker, her choice—shuffled in.
“Yes, Daisy?”
“I have… a message,” said Daisy hesitantly. “Should I wait?” She nodded meaningfully in Amber’s direction.
“No need to worry about her.” Ms. Mauvais waved her hand dismissively, as if Amber were of no more consequence than a potted plant.
“It’s about those kids—”
“Which kids? There are so many these days.”
“You know which,” said Daisy, her brow furrowed in irritation. “Cassandra and her gang.” “Oh, them,” said Ms. Mauvais without betraying the slightest bit of emotion. “Are they still kids? One feels they should be old by now—they’ve already caused so much vexation in their short, meaningless little lives.”
“Lord Pharaoh says they have something he wants. He says you’ll know what it is.” “I see.”
“Don’t you want me to… get it for you?” Daisy’s gloved hands clutched at each other as if she were already anticipating wringing the necks of her young victims.
“No, I do not!” snapped Ms. Mauvais. “I told you to stay out of the way, all of you.” “As you wish, Madame,” said Daisy, disappointed.
“Now get out, you pathetic oaf.”
As Daisy shuffled out, Ms. Mauvais turned back to Amber. “Amanda, dear, perhaps I will help you after all.”
Amber whimpered hopefully.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
THE MUMMY'S LAUGH
  
WHO PULLED OFF MY FINGER? I WANT MY FINGER!”
The woods were cold and gray, the trees bare and ashen.
Yo-Yoji ran faster and faster. But the voice behind him kept getting louder and louder. “WHO PULLED OFF MY FINGER? I WANT MY FINGER!”
“I didn’t mean to take it!” Yo-Yoji shouted over his shoulder. “Cass just threw it to me!”
He could hear twigs breaking, leaves crunching. His own footsteps or his pursuer’s? He couldn’t tell.
“FIN-GER! I. WANT. MY. FINGER!”
“The museum has it! I’ll get it back for you, I promise.” “FIN-GER… FINGER FINGER FINGER!”
“Just let me live! Please!”
He tripped on a rock and fell to the ground. Winded and terrified, he looked up into the dark yawning mouth of—
“PULL MY FINGER! I WANT YOU TO PULL MY FINGER!”
—his little brother, Gajin, in his Spider-Man Underoos. Not as scary a sight as the mouth of a mummy, perhaps, but equally unwelcome.
“Pull my finger!” repeated Gajin, pointing his finger at his sleepy older brother. “Go away,” said Yo-Yoji, closing his eyes.
“Pull my finger!” “Go away.”
“Not until you pull my finger.” “What? Why?”
“Just pull my finger, please.”
“Fine, but then you’re leaving my room.”
Yo-Yoji lifted his head off his pillow and gave his brother’s index finger a quick tug. Gajin grinned and let out a loud fart.
“Thanks, I needed that!” he said with exaggerated relief, and then started laughing hysterically.
“Dude, you’re worse than Max-Ernest,” Yo-Yoji groaned.
Gajin shrugged. “Mom says you’re going to be late for school!” he shouted, running out of his older brother’s room.

Max-Ernest was the last to arrive. The other students were bent over their desks, taking a test. “Sorry I’m late,” he said to his math teacher, who was writing something on the chalkboard.
“I—”
Max-Ernest had a momentary memory lapse. Why was he late? But his teacher appeared not to notice. At least, he didn’t turn around.
Slightly unnerved, Max-Ernest sat down. His test was on his desk, along with a pencil. How could he have forgotten there was a test today? It was so unlike him.
When he saw what was written on the test, he frowned. There weren’t any words or numbers, only symbols. Hieroglyphs. Strange that they would be on a math test, although, of course, the ancient Egyptians were very good at math.

He glanced around the classroom. He could read hieroglyphs, yes, but surely the other students would not be expected to translate from ancient Egyptian. Could this be a message written only for him?
  
Max-Ernest scrutinized the hieroglyphs, trying to make sense of them. “S-EE-K-R-E-T,” he sounded out. Secret.
For a second, he was thrilled with his discovery. Then he realized that this couldn’t be the Secret they were looking for; it was just the modern word, rendered phonetically in hieroglyphs. Was somebody playing a joke on him? Taunting him?
He looked up. The teacher was walking toward him. Wearing the clothes of a math teacher, he had the face of—
—the mummy!
The mummy grinned at Max-Ernest, revealing the dark hole inside his head. “Congratulations, Max-Ernest—you figured it out!”
The mummy extended his four-fingered hand. Terrified, Max-Ernest shook the mummy’s hand, only to experience the electrifying jolt of—
—his alarm clock. It was time to get up.

“Cassandra, my dear, come, get off your ear—”
The Jester looked down at Cass with concerned eyes. The bells on his hat gently jingled.
Around them, the red-and-white-striped sides of his tent billowed in the wind. “Time is running out. Stop lying about.”
Cass raised her head. “How long do I have?” she asked, fighting the sense of panic that was overtaking her.
In answer, the Jester picked up an hourglass off a card table and turned it over.
As the sand began to pour, the sides of the tent gave way and flew up in the wind as if they were as light as paper.…
Cass blinked. When she opened her eyes, the Jester was gone and she was standing in a vast and silent desert.
Ahead of her, a black-and-white bird—an ibis—flew in slow circles above an enormous sand dune. Cass could feel the bird’s dark eyes on her. Waiting for her.
She started walking toward the dune, her bare feet sliding backward in the sand with every step. On her finger, the gold ibis ring pulsed. It felt warm.
Soon, Cass thought, soon I will know the Secret. The points of her ears prickled in anticipation.
Suddenly, a hot wind stirred the sand and forced the bird to flap his wings harder. The bird’s movements became erratic, his circles larger.
The wind got stronger and stronger until sand was blowing in big gusts off the top of the dune. The sand stung Cass’s eyes. It blew into her mouth, her ears, her hair.
The ibis could no longer hold his position. With a single, plaintive cry in Cass’s direction, he flew off into the horizon.
Protecting her face as well as she could, Cass trudged forward, determined to reach the dune. But the closer she got, the smaller the dune became; it was as if she were falling farther away rather than coming closer.
By the time she reached the spot where the dune had been, there was only flat desert. And, lying exposed on the ground, the mummy.
He sat up and looked at her; his eyes were the eyes of the ibis.
“What is the Secret?” she shouted, but her voice was lost in the wind.
She tried to repeat her question, but this time the words would not leave her lips.
She stumbled, then tried to regain her footing, then stumbled again. The wind knocked her flat. She could feel sand blowing onto her, burying her. Soon only her face and right hand were uncovered. Sand swirled around the ibis ring as if simultaneously attracted and repelled by opposing magnetic forces.
The mummy stood over her. Behind him, loose linen bandages blew in the wind.
“The Secret? You want me to tell you the Secret?” He started to laugh. “You have the ring. Give me the ring!”
He laughed harder and harder until she was entirely covered in sand and about to choke.
She woke up with her face buried in her pillow and the mummy’s ring pulling at the chain around her neck.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
CURIOUS CASE OF THE WALKING MUMMY
  
GRADUATION SPEECH—SECOND DRAFT
by M-E

TITLE:

THE MUMMY MYSTERY 
M IS FOR MUMMY 
MUMMY DEAREST 
ARE YOU MY MUMMY? 
THE MUMMY’S SECRET
SECRETS OF THE MYSTERY MUMMY 
THE CURSE OF THE MUMMY’S FINGER 
THE MISSING MUMMY MYSTERY
THE MYSTERY OF THE MISSING MUMMY 
THE MYSTERY MUMMY GOES MISSING 
THE MYSTERY MUMMY RISES AGAIN 
NIGHT OF THE LIVING MUMMY
THE GREAT MUMMY ESCAPE
THE CURIOUS CASE OF THE WALKING MUMMY

(Yes! sounds most Sherlock Holmes–ish) 

OPENING JOKE:
Find later. Not in mood. (You? Not in mood for joke?? What happened—feeling mum? Missing your mummy? Ha-ha!)

THESIS:
When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains must be the truth.

SPEECH:
Unlike Cass, who likes novels, especially adventure stories like Robinson Crusoe and The Count of Monte Cristo, I usually like nonfiction. (Wait, why am I talking about Cass in my graduation speech? Bad beginning. Erase. Emergency. Errr… Sound of brakes squealing) Starting over…    

In my opinion, nonfiction makes more sense and is more informative than fiction.*
The only genre of fiction I like is the mystery. (Genre means kind of fiction, if you don’t know.) Mystery novels, such as the ones by Sherlock Holmes, are like long puzzles that you can work out in your head. (You mean ones about Sherlock Holmes, duh. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is the writer!)
But every once in a while, you find a mystery that you can’t work out because there’s some kind of supernatural element involved. I’m not necessarily a big fan of those mysteries, but I guess a lot of people are.
In most mummy stories, for example, a mummy rises from the dead for one of the following reasons:

—curse or magical spell
—revenge
—reunion with a wife or lover
—a combination of the above

But none of these are very realistic, are they?
If a mummy truly has been reanimated—so that he’s actually walking!!—there must be a more rational explanation. Right? I mean, right?? An explanation that fits the laws of nature, not the laws of literature.
What does this have to do with graduation? Nothing. But it’s important to think about because… well, you never know.…

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
THE LIBRARY
  
Max-Ernest was so preoccupied with the Curious Case of the Walking Mummy (the actual case, not his graduation speech) that he’d almost forgotten he had detention on Monday morning. Luckily, when he tried to sit down at the Nuts Table at recess, Glob and Daniel-not-Danielle were there to remind Max-Ernest of his pitiable fate. They felt so sorry for him that they fortified him with a new pizza-flavored energy bar and an old Silver Surfer comic, respectively, before steering him toward his place of confinement—the school library.
The library had once been Max-Ernest’s favorite place on campus. When he was in the lower grades and hadn’t yet become friends with Cass and Yo-Yoji, the books in the library provided a refuge from the confusing world of the playground. In those days, other kids always seemed to him to be speaking in code—a code he couldn’t crack, no matter how many methods he applied. Books, on the other hand, he could rely on to explain themselves; and if a book used a word he didn’t know, he could always look up the definition.
He used to sit in the corner of the library reading and rereading first the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew, later Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Edgar Allan Poe. As he read, he would imagine he was an apprentice investigator hired to assist the detective heroes, never guessing that he would soon be solving mysteries of his own as a member of a top secret international organization—the Terces Society.
Today, as he entered the library, he could see hardly a trace of the room he remembered. The old librarian, Pam, had retired a year before, and budget cuts meant that she had yet to be replaced. Gone were Pam’s more eccentric shelf labels, like BOOKS TO READ WHEN YOU’RE SICK and BOOKS FOR BOYS WHO LIKE BUGS and BOOKS THAT SMELL LIKE OLD SHOES. The only posters that remained on the walls were strict admonishments about the virtues (rather than the pleasures) of reading.

A BOOK A DAY KEEPS THE DOCTOR AWAY! 

In any event, there was no question of Max-Ernest’s picking up a new mystery to read right now. Whether he liked it or not, he was more than sufficiently occupied with a mystery already—a mummy mystery. And a doozy of a mummy mystery at that.
Mrs. Johnson came out from behind the librarian’s desk when he walked in.
“Sit!” She pointed to a table where Cass was already seated and writing in her notebook. “Dr. Ndefo hasn’t yet told me what happened at the museum, but I understand things did not go well.

I’m sure I will learn all the details soon. In the meantime, I want you to work on your graduation speech and reflect on the terrible fate that awaits you should I choose not to let you graduate. Not only will you have to relive the current year—with me—but you will, in all likelihood, be dooming yourself to a lifetime of crime and poverty. Homelessness, hunger, early death—these are things you can look forward to.…”
Max-Ernest nodded, gulping. “You forgot prison.”
“Where do you think you are now? And rest assured, I will be back to check on you, so no funny business,” she added as she walked out.

Max-Ernest hadn’t seen Cass since watching the video, and there were many things he wanted to say when he walked up to her, but instead of blurting everything out at once, he extended his hand.
“Shake.”
“Why?” asked Cass, shutting her notebook. She couldn’t remember the last time they’d shaken hands—if they ever had.
“Just do it.”
Warily, Cass took his hand—then jerked hers away. “What was that? Did you take my ring?!”
“No. Look—”
He opened his palm and revealed a round metal disk with a button in the middle. Cass looked at it as though it might be the trigger for a bomb. “And that is…?”
“A hand buzzer. It’s a prank. Very old school. You know, like a whoopee cushion or a squirt ring. Anyway, it’s got a spring inside. I thought maybe that’s how the ibis ring works. How ’bout that?”
“So you think the ring is a prank, too?” asked Cass dubiously. “A joke ring? From ancient Egypt?”
Max-Ernest shrugged. “Well, Dr. Amun liked cartoons, right? Maybe he liked pranks, too.” He wasn’t about to tell her he got the idea from his dream. “Where is Yo-Yoji, by the way?”
“No idea. Maybe he got so spooked by the idea of a walking mummy that he’s dropping out of school and we’re never going to see him again.”
“Yo-Yoji? I doubt it.”
They were silent for a moment. For reasons that had only partially to do with a walking mummy and an ancient secret, talking wasn’t as easy between them as it had been even a short time before.
Max-Ernest eyed her notebook. “Is the you-know-what in there? I mean, the hieroglyphs?” Cass hesitated.
“Blink once for yes, twice for no.” Cass rolled her eyes.
“That’s OK, you don’t have to tell me. You don’t have to show it to me. You don’t have to do anything you don’t want to do.” He had practiced these words in his head, and he felt he had delivered them with admirable calm.
Cass looked at him. “You get that it’s not because I don’t want to, right?” “You don’t? I mean, it’s not?” Max-Ernest couldn’t look her in the eye.
“No, you dummy. Haven’t you noticed I keep asking for your help even though I can’t really talk about… it. I can’t do this without you; you know that. You were the one who found the ring in the trunk, remember?”
“I didn’t think you’d noticed,” said Max-Ernest, trying not to choke up. “Actually, if you want to know the truth, I didn’t think you really wanted to be friends anymore.”
“What? That’s—” “Ridiculous?” They both laughed.
“OK, now that’s settled. So what do you think… it… is?” asked Cass.
Max-Ernest shook his head. “I have no idea. But the walking mummy? I can’t help feeling he must have something to do with… it.”
Cass looked at her friend in surprise. He didn’t usually put much stock in feelings, only facts. “So then you think the mummy really came back to life?” she asked. “You, Mr. Rational?”
“I didn’t say that exactly.”
“Hey, wait, I just thought of something,” said Cass excitedly. Quickly, she opened her notebook and peeked inside, careful not to let Max-Ernest see what she was looking at. “Is there a hieroglyph that looks like feet? And could it mean walk?”
“Yes, there’s a hieroglyph that looks like feet—there’s one that looks like pretty much everything. And sometimes it means walk. I think it can also mean run, cross, move, go—whatever makes sense for where it is.”
Cass wrote notes as Max-Ernest talked. “Forget I’m telling you this,” she said, “but for a long time, I thought the last hieroglyph of the… it… just looked like a letter V. But now that I think about it, I sort of drew the V with feet. Maybe the feet were the important part of the hieroglyph, and I just didn’t realize it.”
“So you’re thinking that the you-know-what is about walking—and therefore that’s what made the mummy walk? I thought it was about an ibis or Thoth.” Max-Ernest couldn’t hide his skepticism.
“So then what’s your theory about what it is?” asked Cass, closing her notebook. “I know you have one. You always do.”
Max-Ernest shrugged.
In truth, he did not have a theory about what the Secret was. Not currently. For a long time, he had suspected that the Secret might have something to do with the legendary philosopher’s stone—the magical substance that was the holy grail of alchemy and that turned lead into gold and made people immortal. More recently, however, he’d begun to doubt this theory. The philosopher’s stone was a European myth. The Secret, on the other hand, had originated in ancient Egypt. Didn’t it therefore make sense to look for the Secret in Egyptian mythology?
He thought he might have hit on something when he read about the Book of Thoth—a book said to contain all the spells of the universe. But what, then, would the Secret be? If the Secret came from the Book of Thoth, it literally could be about anything.
“No, I know it’s hard to believe, but I really don’t have a theory,” he said.

“Yoo-hoo!”
For a second, neither of them recognized the giddy girl bouncing through the door with a sheepish Yo-Yoji in tow.
“Hi, guys! Did y’all miss me?”

“Amber?!” Cass and Max-Ernest cried out at the same time.
Amber appeared transformed, and yet the most astonishing thing about her transformation was how much like herself she still looked; she was just a better, more beautiful version of the Amber they’d known for years. All traces of acne gone, her skin was smoother than ever, with a new hint of pink on her cheeks and a new dewiness on her lips. Her eyes sparkled; her smile effervesced. Her hair shimmered, and when she tossed it, it seemed to float in slow motion like a shampoo commercial brought to life. There was something dazzling and unreal about her; she was a mirage of youthful perfection.
“What happened to you?” asked Max-Ernest. “We heard you went blind or something.”
“Is that what people are saying?” Amber laughed—a tinkly laugh that chilled her schoolmates without their quite knowing why. “I just had a little cold, that’s all. So sorry to keep your friend out of detention. Mrs. Johnson said I could borrow him for a moment.” Amber smiled at Yo- Yoji. “I know it was torture for him… right, Yo-Yoji?”
Yo-Yoji didn’t say anything, but his cheeks flushed red. “Borrow him? He’s not a library book,” said Cass, stone-faced.
“It’s just that he’s so good with graphics and computers and stuff, and I needed to make posters for Grad Night,” said Amber breezily. “See?” She held up a flyer with a picture of King Tut’s mask on it. “Doesn’t it look awesome? Ridiculous, right?”
 
Graduation 
May xx 7 P.M. 
NIGHT

Max-Ernest noted silently that Amber had used Yo-Yoji’s word without apparent effort.
“Oh, yeah, totally ridiculous,” imitated Cass, obviously noting the same thing—not so silently.
“The theme is going to be King Tut,” Amber blithely continued. “You know, ‘Dance like an Egyptian’? We’ve been practicing.” She demonstrated, bending her arms and wrists at right angles, and thrusting one hand forward and one hand back. “C’mon, Yo-Yoji. Show them.”
Blushing even harder, Yo-Yoji put his hands in position and started doing the Egyptian dance.
Amber smiled at Cass and Max-Ernest. “Cool, huh?”
Max-Ernest winced. It wasn’t that dancing like an Egyptian was necessarily uncool—Max-Ernest didn’t feel qualified to make that judgment one way or the other. It was just seeing Yo-Yoji reduced to following Amber’s orders. It was more disturbing than when Yo-Yoji had been in the grip of a seventeenth-century samurai.

“Why don’t you guys try?” Amber suggested.
Cass and Max-Ernest shook their heads: not a chance.
With Amber’s attention directed at the others, Yo-Yoji pointed at Amber as if to say, Don’t look at me, look at her. But somehow that only made it worse.
Max-Ernest looked at Cass to see how she was responding to the humiliation of their friend.
Her face remained calm, but her ears were a fiery crimson.
Indeed, a lot of thoughts were racing through Cass’s head at the moment—most of them unrepeatable in polite company. But one question was paramount: what had happened to Amber? “Speaking of the dance, do you guys have any Egyptian stuff?” asked Amber casually. “Like, maybe some costumes or something left over from the Egypt unit?”
“My costume was paper, and it ripped when both my parents tried to take it,” said Max-Ernest truthfully.
“What about you, Cass, don’t you have anything?” asked Amber. Cass shook her head, staring at Amber.
The only other person Cass knew to have changed so dramatically was their friend Benjamin Blake, and his transformation had been courtesy of the Midnight Sun. Come to think of it, the new Amber reminded Cass very much of a young Ms. Mauvais.…
“Maybe some jewelry,” Amber persisted. “Like a bracelet or a ring or something?”
“What would you want a ring for?” asked Cass, a vague suspicion beginning to form in her mind.
“Oh, I was just thinking, you know, like for a prize, or for the queen of the dance or something. Not for me, if that’s what you were thinking,” said Amber with a laugh. “Why? Do you have an Egyptian ring you could loan us? It would be awesome if you did.”
While Amber spoke, Yo-Yoji kept motioning behind her back. At first Cass thought he was still doing the Egyptian dance, but then she realized Yo-Yoji was trying to point to something. After looking Amber up and down and then up again, Cass figured out what it was: the silver tote bag hanging from Amber’s shoulder.
“Hey, Amber, where did you get that bag?” she asked.
At the top of the bag was a tag bearing an insignia of a black sun and the words SOLAR-ZERO LLC.  
“Um, I got it in—actually, I don’t remember,” Amber stammered, her bubbly ease momentarily fizzing. “I think it was my mom’s. I could try to get you one if you like it,” she added, recovering.
“That’s OK. I just thought I recognized the name.” Cass looked significantly at her friends as Amber walked quickly away.
Max-Ernest’s eyes widened. “That’s it! I knew it was a weird name. Zero in twenty-four-hour time is midnight.”
Cass nodded. “And solar means…”
The three friends looked at each other, acknowledging the awful fact: Solar-Zero LLC was the Midnight Sun.
Which meant the Midnight Sun had financed the mummy exhibit.
Which meant the mummy’s arrival in their lives—and his mysterious departure—was no coincidence at all.
It was something much worse.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
A VISITOR AT THE CIRCUS
  
It was just before noon. The sun was high, but the circus was still quiet.
A handsome, impeccably dressed man with a cool, unruffled demeanor strolled along the midway, his hands casually resting in his coat pockets.
At first glance, he couldn’t have looked more out of place in these decidedly scruffy surroundings. The trash-strewn ground had likely never been trod upon by shoes as shiny as his. The tattered tents were almost an insult to his smooth tan skin. And behind the rusty bars of an ancient cage, the mangy mane of a once-regal lion seemed to wilt in the light of the man’s perfectly coiffed silver hair.
But if you happened to look closely at his eyes, you might have read there a different story. They were the eyes of a much older man—much older than this man at first appeared. You could see the telltale beginnings of crow’s-feet around the corners, and the whites of his eyes had a slightly yellowish cast. But it wasn’t simply a question of age; it was also the emotion in his eyes—the tears. The sight of the circus moved him, it seemed, reminding him of his lost youth, perhaps, or of something or someone from his past.
Possibly, it was this memory that caused him to stop in front of a greasy old popcorn cart and close his eyes for a moment.
He mumbled to himself. Four words. They sounded like a spell or an incantation. Or a very odd recipe.
“Heliotrope… Echinacea… Licorice… Peanut butter…”

When he opened his eyes, two clowns—or at least two men who had been made up as clowns the night before (and hadn’t washed their faces since)—stood in front of him.
“Admission is ten dollars,” said the skinnier, taller clown whose name was Morrie. “Exact change only.”
“Well, if you want to give us a hundred dollars, that’s OK, too,” said the shorter, fatter clown, Mickey. “Just don’t expect any change back.”
“Oh, I don’t know, for a hundred, we can give him something back. How about a smile?”
Mickey grinned. “Right. No change. Except the change in our moods. Nothing sadder than a sad clown.”
“Why should I pay anything?” asked the visitor. “The circus is closed.”
Morrie nodded. “I couldn’t have said it better myself! The circus is closed. You pay, we open it for you.”
“And do what? A clown act? I’m getting that for free.”
“Oh, so now you think you can make fun of us, huh, wise guy?” Mickey growled.
“Yeah, mister, we make the jokes around here!” growled Morrie. “Your job is to be the butt of them.”
The visitor chuckled. “Easy, friends. For your information, I’m not some rube walking into the circus so you can make me into your next mark.”
“Well, you’re not some old carnie, either—I can tell you that much,” said Mickey, studying the well-groomed man in front of him. “Not with that fancy, sort-of-European-sort-of-not accent of yours.”
“Yeah, where you from anyway—Paris, Texas?” asked Morrie.

Mickey laughed. “Good one, Morrie.”
Morrie took a bow. “Thanks, Mickey. I perform here every night. Tell your friends.” “I’m here to see Pietro,” said the visitor, losing patience. “Can you tell me where he is?” At the mention of the circus master’s name, the clowns relaxed slightly.
“Pietro? Why didn’t you say so?” exclaimed Mickey.
“And who should we say is calling at this god-awful hour?” asked Morrie. “It’s noon.”
“That’s high noon to you,” Morrie corrected. “And bedtime for us,” Mickey added.
“Tell him a… relative is here to see him.”
“Relative, huh? Come to think of it, you do look kind of like the old man,” said Morrie. “Sort of the newer, shinier version.”
Mickey nodded. “Kind of like when they take those classic old cars and reissue them fifty years later.”
“What are you, his nephew or something?” asked Morrie.
“Actually, I’m his twin brother,” said the visitor, extending his hand for the first time. “Doctor Luciano Bergamo, at your service.”
“His brother?!” exclaimed the clowns in unison.
Neither clown moved to shake the man’s hand. They just stared in disbelief at his pristine white glove.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
HOBO MARKS
  
The revelation that the Midnight Sun had financed the mummy exhibit certainly added an interesting wrinkle to the Curious Case of the Walking Mummy. It meant that the Midnight Sun knew who Dr. Amun was and that they wanted the mummy nearby. That much was clear. What confounded Max-Ernest as he walked home that afternoon was the question of whether or not they were now in possession of the mummy.
He saw three possibilities:
One, the Midnight Sun had broken into the museum and taken the mummy. If so, why were they not on the video?
Two (and he was hesitant to believe this), the Midnight Sun had somehow managed to resurrect the mummy. The mummy had then left the museum according to their instructions and was now their zombie slave.
Three (equally unlikely), their plan had backfired. The mummy had come back to life—whether with the Midnight Sun’s help or on his own—and had then walked out of his own accord. In this case, the mummy was now roaming the world as a rogue agent.
Max-Ernest didn’t accept any of these possibilities, but no matter how much he thought about it, he couldn’t think of any others.
Thinking, as you probably know from experience, can be very hazardous to your health. I don’t mean that thinking may lead you to do something hazardous (like investigate secrets), although of course that’s true as well. I mean thinking can cause you physical harm.
On the best of days, Max-Ernest was prone to walking into things: walls, cars, telephone poles, fire hydrants, people carrying trays of food or bags of groceries. When he was deep in thought, as he was now, he was liable to walk off a cliff.
Luckily, the drop from the curb to the street was only a few inches. Still, it was sufficient to cause him to trip and fall and lie sprawled on the asphalt cogitating anxiously about all the possible sprains and abrasions and breaks and bruises that he might or might not just now or in the future be suffering from.
The view from ground level is seldom pleasant—unless you happen to be lying in a meadow or on a sandy beach—but it can be revelatory. Sometimes when we are at our lowest points, we make our greatest discoveries. Not so Max-Ernest. Eyes blurred, cheeks scraped, Max-Ernest stared across the street to the empty lot on the other side. He waited for some profound realization. It didn’t come. (Thankfully, neither did any cars.) He did, however, see something that caused his pulse to quicken:
A movement in the bushes. And—what was that? An arm? A leg? Then… nothing.
Max-Ernest’s first instinct was to stay where he was and play dead. Then he realized that was silly. If there was someone—a reanimated mummy, for example, or more likely his reanimated schoolmate, Amber—who wanted to attack him, he would be far more vulnerable lying in the street than standing up. And even if nobody meant him any harm, there was still the probability of being run over.
Reluctantly, he stood.
Imagining that Cass was watching—and judging—his actions, he resisted running home and instead walked across the street to investigate. “Hello?” The word came out as a screech.
Nobody answered. There was no sound of any kind. Until a pigeon flew out from behind a bush.
Max-Ernest looked around, feeling rather foolish.
His mother’s house—or, more accurately, his mother’s half house—had stood here in this lot during the time it was separated from his father’s half house. Max-Ernest remembered that time well: a hopeful time when it seemed for once that his parents might live like normal divorced parents—that is, separately. Now that his mother’s half house had rejoined his father’s (and his parents were once again cohabiting and once again not speaking to each other), all that remained in the place of his mother’s half house were a half dozen or so slabs of cement and a variety of sad-looking weeds.
Usually, nothing decorated the surface of the cement except dead leaves and the occasional splatter of bird droppings. Today, however, he saw something more intriguing.
He looked around to make sure he was unobserved. Then he leaned down to inspect the cement more closely. Yes, there they were, faint but unmistakable: two symbols drawn in chalk.
Hieroglyphs! Could it be a message left for him by the mummy? This time real and not dreamed.
He looked again. No, it wasn’t a message from the mummy.
Still, the markings looked very similar to hieroglyphs, and in a general sense they were hieroglyphs. Not ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs but modern ones:
  
They were hobo marks—a written code used by hobos to communicate secretly with one another, often offering warnings and advice.
To most people, the marks at Max-Ernest’s feet would mean nothing. Even to a hobo, they would appear contradictory, if not downright crazy.
Literally translated, the two symbols meant:

GO QUICKLY / FLEE—
STAY / SAFE PLACE TO SPEND NIGHT

To members of the Terces Society, however, they meant something quite different:

URGENT—
MEET TONIGHT AT HEADQUARTERS

Max-Ernest walked home with a furrowed brow.
Why was Pietro calling in the troops? They’d been sending him regular reports on the mummy situation, but maybe he wanted to hear about it in person. Or perhaps Pietro had some information for them.
In either case, Max-Ernest welcomed the chance to talk to the old magician. No doubt he would provide new insight into the Curious Case of the Walking Mummy.

Shortly before midnight, Max-Ernest stood across the street from Cass’s house, anxiously checking his watch. Pietro was the kind of man whose favorite form of relaxation consisted of fixing old clocks so they kept perfect time; he didn’t like it when people were late.
Max-Ernest felt a tap on his shoulder. Flinching, he turned around—all the way around—until he saw Cass smiling mischievously at him.
“Just a little taste of your own medicine. Hope I didn’t scare you… too much.”
“Only because you’re late,” he replied irritably. “Three minutes and forty-two seconds later than last time. You should practice climbing out your bedroom window more often.”
“And you should stop looking at your watch. I’ve been standing right behind you for longer than that.”
“Really?”
“No, but I might have been. You should be more careful.”
He opened his mouth, trying to think of a snappy comeback, when Yo-Yoji walked up. “Hey.”
“Hey,” said his friends.
“Sorry about in the library today,” said Yo-Yoji. “I know that was kinda goofy. Mrs. Johnson made me go with Amber and then—”
“What are you sorry for? People like who they like,” said Cass.
“I don’t like her. When I saw her bag, I decided to be nice to find out if she knew anything.” “Whatever you say.”
“Why you have to be like that, dude?” “Like what? Dude.”
“Um, guys,” said Max-Ernest, trying and failing to get their attention.
“I just think you should be careful,” said Cass. “I mean, it’s kind of dangerous hanging out with somebody who’s in the Midnight Sun, don’t you think?”
“I was not hanging out with her!” said Yo-Yoji, clenching his fists in frustration. Max-Ernest tried again. “Guys! Can you stop talking for a second?”
Cass and Yo-Yoji looked at him in surprise. The idea of Max-Ernest, of all people, telling anybody to stop talking was a bit funny, to say the least.
“We’re late,” he said.
“I know—stop dawdling,” said Cass, a little smile crossing her lips. She started walking. “C’mon, it took us thirty-five minutes to get there last time.”
“Thirty-six,” Max-Ernest corrected. Yo-Yoji followed, scowling.
“Bogus,” he muttered. “So bogus, it’s re-bog-ulous.”

Although officially an “old-fashioned traveling circus,” Pietro’s circus hadn’t traveled so much as an inch in the past year. The half dozen or so tents and equal number of trailers that made up the circus sat on a big dirt lot that by now had come to seem a permanent, if not always pleasant, home to the circus folk.
The lot was surrounded on all sides by an old wire fence. There was only one way in—a dirt road crossed by a rusting chain. Usually, the chain wasn’t any real hindrance to passage. You simply walked over it. Or unhooked it from a post if you were driving a car or carting something heavy.
Tonight, there was an additional obstacle blocking their way:
“Who’s that?” whispered Cass.
A man—or the shadow of a man—stood stiffly in front of the chain. His arms and legs were spread, signaling that they were not to cross. His face they couldn’t see.
He didn’t move as they came closer. He could have been a scarecrow.
It didn’t necessarily look like the mummy. Then again, in the video, they hadn’t been able to see the mummy’s face, either.
“Chill,” said Yo-Yoji. “Even if there’s some mummy walking around out there who wants to kill us for taking his finger, how would he know we were coming here?”
“Yo-Yoji’s right,” said Max-Ernest. “That wouldn’t make any sense.”
“Well, let’s keep going, then,” said Cass. She didn’t say what she was thinking: that the ring hanging from her neck might be acting as some kind of homing device, attracting the mummy.
They had no choice but to walk right up to him.
The man was wearing a rumpled old suit and a stained fishing hat with a broken pigeon feather stuck in it. His face was smudged with dirt and grease. He might not have been a mummy, but he looked very much as though he’d been dug out of the ground. Not a reassuring sight, by any means.
“Yo, what’s up?” said Yo-Yoji nonchalantly. He kept walking as if he had every intention of stepping over the chain and entering the circus.
“Not so fast, buster,” said the man in a low rumble. His arm shot out in front of Yo-Yoji. “Password?”
“Password? We come here all the time,” said Max-Ernest, trying not to sound nervous. “We’re… friends of Pietro’s.”
“I don’t care if you’re friends with the queen of England. Nobody enters without the password.”
“But nobody told us the password,” said Cass. “We didn’t even get a hint!”
“OK, OK, if you would shut your bazoos and stop barbering for a second, I’ll give you punks a hint,” said the man, softening. “What a bronc is to a cowboy, a train is to a blank.”
“That’s easy,” said Max-Ernest. “A cowboy rides a horse. A conductor rides a train.” “That’s true, but that’s not the password. The password is four letters long.”
“Well, how about pass, then?” Cass asked. “Short for a passenger riding a train. But also for password. And for Why don’t you let us pass now—this is crazy.” “Clever,” said the man, not moving. “But no go.”
“Wait, I know what it is,” said Yo-Yoji unexpectedly.
“Hobo!” Max-Ernest blurted out, saying the word at the same time as Yo-Yoji. Yo-Yoji gave him a look.
“Sorry,” said Max-Ernest. “I just figured it out and—”
“And you had to say it, I know,” said Yo-Yoji. “No worries.”
“You guys got it! Hobo it is,” said the disheveled crossing guard. “Just like me.” The hobo held up his arms and turned in a circle to show off his outfit. “You like the suit? I dressed up in case anybody saw me leaving those chalk marks today.”
“Owen!” cried Cass.

“The very same,” said the actor turned Terces Society spy. Grinning, he took off his fishing hat and bowed. “At your service, m’lady.”
“I’m going to kill you!” said Cass. (Although she had great affection for Owen, it infuriated Cass that he always pretended to be somebody he wasn’t—even when it wasn’t strictly necessary.)
“You know who we are—it’s not like we’re in disguises,” said Max-Ernest. “Why couldn’t you just let us in?”
“What fun would that be? Besides, I’m trying to delay going to the meeting,” said Owen, his grin fading.
“Why? What’s the meeting about?” asked Yo-Yoji. “Can’t be worse than what we’ve been dealing with.”
“Let’s just say we have an unfriendly guest.”
Alarmed, the kids looked at one another. Could the mummy somehow have found his way into the circus after all?
From somewhere in the darkness came the braying of circus animals and the sound of tents flapping in the wind.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
A MIDNIGHT MEETING
  
It would be hard to overstate the shock Cass, Yo-Yoji, and Max-Ernest felt when they saw their old nemesis, Dr. L, sitting by the campfire behind Pietro’s trailer.
This was the man who had nearly succeeded in sucking out Benjamin Blake’s brains through his nostrils and who had later brainwashed the boy into spying on his friends. (Benjamin was now being homeschooled and, thankfully, was doing very well.) The man who had lured Cass and Max-Ernest aboard his boat and then tried to feed them to sharks. The man who’d helped Ms. Mauvais build a secret chocolate plantation on the backs of slave children. The man they’d last seen dressed as a Renaissance courtier casually orchestrating a lopsided duel between Yo-Yoji and the deadly Lord Pharaoh.
He was one of the leaders of the Midnight Sun. Their sworn enemy. And there he was, sitting on a lawn chair next to Pietro and the other members of the Terces Society, exactly as if he were one of them.
“Peanuts?” Dr. L offered, holding up a striped bag of the classic circus snack. “They are so much better in the shell. I’d forgotten.”
Pietro smiled. “My brother and I, we used to climb up the trapeze and throw the peanuts at the clowns,” said Pietro, his Italian accent noticeably stronger—and warmer—than his brother’s. “We laughed and laughed, but then we were always too scared to climb back down, ti ricordi, Luciano?”
Dr. L chuckled. “That’s because the clowns were waiting to throw us into the water with the seals.”
The sight of these two men—one looking very much like a man in his seventies or eighties, the other looking half that age—reminiscing together would have been odd even if you didn’t know about the intense animosity between them. Under the circumstances, it was unspeakably weird.
The newcomers scanned the faces of the older Terces members for an explanation. From the looks of it, everyone else was as puzzled as they were.
Mr. Wallace, the certified public accountant who was secretly the Terces Society’s archivist and oldest surviving member, had a contorted, almost pained expression, as if he were lifting a heavy object (or was just very constipated).
Lily, the violin instructor who happened to be the Terces Society’s resident physical-defense expert, stared angrily into the distance, so infuriated by the presence of Dr. L that she couldn’t even get herself to nod in welcome to her old student, Yo-Yoji.
Myrtle, the circus’s bearded lady and Pietro’s gal Friday, stood nearby, grimacing with disapproval.
Owen, meanwhile, kept standing up and sitting down and standing up again, as if he were barely able to keep himself from walking over to the interloper and clobbering him.
Only Pietro seemed happy. He beamed like a proud parent. Gesturing to the three available hay bales, he said, “Take a seat, my young friends. Myrtle, can you make them some hot cocoa?”
Muttering to herself, Myrtle disappeared into the camper.
Dr. L glanced around the circle. “This is all of you? You were stronger in my imagination. I fear my visit here may be in vain.”
Owen stood up again, his face red and his fist curled. “We are as strong as we need to be. Strong enough to crush you!”
“Owen, the actor, am I right?” Dr. L inquired. “You certainly have a flair for the dramatic.” “I also have a flair for slugging people in the eye!”
Pietro motioned for Owen to sit. “Please. My brother, he has come to us of his own free will, at great risk to himself. We should listen to what he has to say.”
“With all due respect, Pietro, you are blinded by your love,” said Mr. Wallace. “What can this man possibly have to say to us?”
“Lies and more lies,” Lily spit out. “That’s what.”
She swatted the ground with her violin bow. As the rest of them knew, the bow was secretly a sword. Lily appeared to be on the verge of using it on Dr. L.
“Anyone else care to share their feelings?” asked Dr. L politely. Nobody said anything. Their silence was eloquent enough.
“Very well.” He smiled thinly. “As you all know, I am not a sentimental man. I do not shudder to see a baby bird taken from its nest. I do not flinch at the sight of blood.”
“On the contrary. You take great pleasure in it,” said Lily through gritted teeth.
“Not pleasure. Merely interest. I am a scientist. But I am still a man. Somewhere inside.” “You are a little boy inside—that is what you are, fratello mio,” said Pietro, his old voice trembling with emotion. “The little boy whose childhood, it was stolen from him by that despicable woman, Ms. Mauvais.”
Lily swatted the ground with her bow again, her rage reaching the boiling point. “His childhood? What about all the childhoods he stole?”
Dr. L shrugged. “Perhaps I am still that boy. Or perhaps I was born old.… Either way, I have discovered that even I have limits. No longer will I condone the unnecessary loss of life.”
“Tell us why you are here,” said Pietro gently.
“Well, this is an appropriate location because what I have to say concerns a ghost,” said Dr. L, his eyes blazing in the firelight. “The ghost of a Swiss doctor who lived five hundred years ago. The greatest alchemist of his time. Perhaps of all time.”
“You mean the rottenest alchemist,” said Max-Ernest, taking a cup of hot cocoa from Myrtle, who had just returned. He sipped greedily. The taste of chocolate gave him the courage to address Dr. L without fear. “You’re talking about the founder of the Midnight Sun, Lord Pharaoh.”
“That is the name he gives himself, yes. He has more than a touch of grandiosity.”
“We know all about him—just ask him,” said Cass, taking her cup. “And tell him to give me back my monocle.”
“I don’t think he cares much about that monocle now. You have something he considers much more precious—another band of gold, this one going back to ancient Egypt.”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” said Cass coolly, doing her best not to call attention to the band of gold hanging from a chain under her shirt.
“It’s OK,” said Pietro. “He knows you have it.”
“Don’t forget, Lord Pharaoh was alive when the Jester left it for you, Cassandra,” said Dr. L. “The Ring of Thoth is one of the reasons he traveled to the present.”
The Ring of Thoth, Cass thought. So that’s what it’s called. But what is its power? “Why are you telling us this?” asked Owen suspiciously.
“To warn you.” Dr. L looked at Cass. “As long as you have the Ring of Thoth, you are in danger. Lord Pharaoh will stop at nothing to get what he wants.”

“Like Ms. Mauvais sending a girl from my school to ask me for it? I think I can handle that.” “Next time, I’ll wager, he’ll come himself,” said Dr. L.
“Does this have anything to do with the missing mummy?” asked Yo-Yoji.
Dr. L shook his head. “I am just as much in the dark as you are about that. But if Cass gives me the ring, I daresay the Midnight Sun will help with that little pickle you’re in with the museum. My organization has been known to have some influence.”
“We don’t want your help!” said Cass, her eyes flashing.
Max-Ernest, uncharacteristically quiet, studied Dr. L. In his readings about card games, Max-Ernest had read about tells—those little nervous habits that tell us when someone is bluffing.* He didn’t know Dr. L well enough to know what his tell was. Nevertheless, Max-Ernest couldn’t help noticing the way the otherwise perfectly composed man was fidgeting with his gloved hands.
As Max-Ernest watched, a small red stain developed on Dr. L’s left glove. Blood.
“Think about it,” Dr. L urged. “If Lord Pharaoh gets what he wants, you won’t have to worry about the mummy again. If not, I fear the mummy will be the least of your worries.”
“You sound pretty sure about this,” Yo-Yoji interjected. “You sure you don’t know where the mummy is?”
“I’m afraid not.”
And then Max-Ernest noticed something truly telling: the glove finger above the bloodstain was flopping, loose. In a flash, Max-Ernest knew why.
“What happened to your hand?” he asked, staring Dr. L in the eye. “Oh, nothing, a little accident,” said Dr. L lightly.
“Can we see?”
“Whatever for? You know how we of the Midnight Sun are about showing our hands. They aren’t our best feature.”
“So then you admit you’re still a member!” said Cass. “I admit nothing.”
“Fine, but you say you’re here to help us, right?” observed Max-Ernest. “If you want us to believe you, you should show us your hand as a gesture of good faith.”
“Fair enough.”
Dr. L started to pull the glove off his right hand. “No, your left hand.”
“Of course.”
Dr. L pulled off the left glove and held up his hand for inspection. It was gnarled and veiny and showed all the signs of age that were absent from his smooth and handsome face. Worm-pale from lack of sun, the skin was spotty, scabby, scarred. The yellowed fingernails were cracked and crooked. It was as though his hand had aged ten years for every one that Dr. L had lived. The hand looked so old it could almost have been the hand of a mummy.
Most alarming of all, Dr. L’s index finger was missing, a bloody bandage in its place.
“It’s just what I thought—he’s lying!” exclaimed Max-Ernest, spitting out a mouthful of hot cocoa in his excitement. “Lord Pharaoh has the mummy.”
“Why do you say that?” asked Mr. Wallace, staring like everyone else at Dr. L’s hand. “Because he used Dr. L’s finger to replace the one I broke off,” said Cass, catching on. “That’s why nobody else was on the video,” said Max-Ernest. “If a ghost went in to get the mummy, it wouldn’t look like anyone else was there. How ’bout that?”
“And then Lord Pharaoh just walked out holding the mummy,” said Yo-Yoji, putting it all together. “Like this—so it looked like the mummy was walking.” He demonstrated, holding up his hands as if he were gripping the mummy’s shoulders.
Pietro’s face went cold. “Luciano, is this true?”
“There’s no use denying it,” said Dr. L. “It was my bad luck that my finger was the closest in size to the mummy’s missing finger. Sadly for Lord Pharaoh, it didn’t quite take. I fear he will have to find the original.”
“Get out of here now,” said Pietro, all traces of joy drained from his eyes. “You have lied to me for the last time.”
“That’s as you wish,” said Dr. L, standing. “But let me say this: I lied for a reason. If Cass knew Lord Pharaoh had the mummy, she would never give me the ring. Even if it was the best thing for her. For all of you.”
Cass nodded. Dr. L was definitely right about that. Not that she would have given him the ring in any case.
“Everything else I said was true,” said Dr. L. “I came here of my own accord to spare you if I could. I see now that that was naive. When Lord Pharaoh gets his hands on the Ring of Thoth—and mark my words, he will get his hands on it—he will be unstoppable. You have no idea what you’re up against.”
“We’ll take our chances,” said Owen.
“You see, Lord Pharaoh believes he really is a pharaoh, and therefore, like a pharaoh, he should be a god on earth,” Dr. L continued somberly. “The Ring of Thoth is the key. When it is reunited with the mummy, the Secret will be revealed.”
Cass fancied she felt the ring buzzing against her chest, but she tried to ignore it.
“After Lord Pharaoh learns the Secret, he will be immortal. And all-powerful. He will claim any body he desires as his own—whether the mummy’s or one of ours—and he will walk the earth in our clothes like a living god. The whole world will do his bidding.”
As Dr. L pronounced these words, a breeze suddenly passed over them, and the flames of the campfire briefly flickered out, much as if they’d been squelched by a ghost.
The group momentarily fell silent, everyone staring nervously into the darkness. But if Lord Pharaoh was there, he showed no further sign.
“As I see it, you have two options,” said Dr. L, looking at Cass. “You can give me the ring now and hope Lord Pharaoh forgets about you—”
“Never,” said Cass.
“Or you can try to beat him at his own game.”
“You mean put the ring on the mummy before he does?” asked Yo-Yoji, incredulous.
“That’s right. If you restore the mummy’s finger and you put the ring on him, then you, not Lord Pharaoh, will learn the Secret.”
“But, uh, as we established earlier, Lord Pharaoh has the mummy, not us,” said Max-Ernest. “We don’t even have the finger. And even if we did, how would we put it back on?”
“At the risk of repeating a cliché, I didn’t say it would be easy.” Dr. L turned to his brother. “Prego, a parting gift.”
Before Pietro could protest, Dr. L handed him a small glass vial with what looked like a drop of oil and a dry flower petal at the bottom. MANDOLIN–ROSE read the old, faded label on the side.


The label was charred around the edges; the vial had survived a fire.
“That little bottle is all that remains of our Symphony of Smells. Guard it well,” said Dr. L softly. “Arrivederci, fratello mio.”
With those parting words, Dr. L bowed curtly to the assembled members of the Terces Society and walked out into the night.


As the grief-stricken Pietro opened the vial from the Symphony of Smells and inhaled the scent, the other adult Terces members argued about how best to respond to what Dr. L had told them. What part was true? What part a lie? Could Dr. L be trusted at all?
The three younger members, meanwhile, stared into the fire, contemplating the days ahead. Each was thinking the same thing: that they had little choice but to follow Dr. L’s advice. Pietro might not insist that they go on such a foolhardy and dangerous adventure. He might not even allow it. But for them, the mission was as clear as if it had been written on a chalkboard:


1. RETRIEVE MUMMY’S FINGER.
2. PUT FINGER BACK ON MUMMY.
3. PUT RING BACK ON FINGER.
4. LEARN THE SECRET.


And…


5. PRAY THEY WEREN’T FALLING INTO A TRAP.

CHAPTER NINETEEN
AN EXAM

NOTE: From time to time, readers ask me if they can join the Terces Society. My responses to this request are many and various, but usually they amount to the same thing:
No.
As in, No, you aren’t even supposed to know about the Terces Society in the first place. As in, No, it’s not exactly a joining kind of thing—you have to be asked.
As in, No, I couldn’t even tell you if we were going to ask you.
As in, No, what makes you think I have any pull with the Terces Society after writing these horribly irresponsible books?
However, it’s always good to be prepared. Or so I hear.
Below you will find an example of the kind of arduous and probing mental examination you should expect should a certain unnamed secret society deem you worthy of its members’ attention. Please destroy this document after completion. Your discretion is appreciated.
—PB


TERCES SOCIETY PRACTICE PRE-ENTRANCE EXAM


1. Name:         
2. Alias/pseudonym:         
3. The Terces Society is
   1. a club dedicated to the study and appreciation of dung beetles.
   2. a secret organization devoted to the protection of an ancient and powerful secret.
   3. an odd group of hieroglyph enthusiasts.
   4. none of your business, buster.
   5. the what society? Sorry, never heard of it.
4. The Secret Series by Pseudonymous Bosch is best avoided because
   1. it refers to a secret that makes people go mad with curiosity and will most likely have the same effect on you.
   2. if you like chocolate, the books will make you hungry and jealous of all the chocolate the author eats; if you don’t like chocolate, you won’t like the books.
5. If you were an animal, you would be a
   1. sloth.
   2. giraffe.
   3. panda.
   4. larval insect.
   5. You already are an animal.
6. Given the choice, you would


   6. lead an exciting life full of danger and adventure.
   7. lead a quiet and contemplative life.
   8. eat a lot of chocolate.
7. True or false?
I would never reveal the Secret for any price.
8. Essay question:
Chocolate is to cheese as chess is to checkers. Explain.
  
CHAPTER TWENTY
THE HEIST 
PART ONE
NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM MUMMIES

The next morning, Cass made a solemn confession to her mother: she wanted to return the mummy, she said, but her friends refused to admit they’d taken it. (Technically, you might notice, this was true. She did want to return the mummy—unfortunately, she didn’t have it. Likewise, her friends did refuse to admit they’d taken the mummy—because, in fact, they hadn’t.) She told her mom that she was going to spend time with Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji after school in order to try to persuade them to do the right thing.
Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji told their parents more or less the same thing—i.e., that they wanted to return the mummy but that their friends refused to admit they’d taken it.
The story was that they would be working on their graduation speeches at the public library. They were packing snacks, and they wouldn’t be home until dinnertime. The time frame was optimistic—there was a very good chance they wouldn’t be home until late that night, or maybe ever—but they figured that was the latest hour they could name without further explanation.
As soon as they got to the library, they went into their respective bathrooms to change. Cass was the last to come out, tugging on her dress so it would stay where it was supposed to.
That’s right: her dress.
Let that sink in for a moment: Cass. In. A. Dress.
And did I mention she was wearing lipstick? Pink lipstick. Had she lost her mind? Undergone a religious conversion?
Actually, she was in disguise. All three of them had adopted disguises of one sort or another. They weren’t exactly expecting to see WANTED posters with their photographs hanging on every wall of the museum, but they figured the disguises might buy them some time should they be spotted by Albert 3-D or one of the security personnel they’d met previously. Also, the disguises might help keep them from being recognized if they were caught on a surveillance video again.
Not would help. Might help.
“Don’t say anything,” said Cass before either of her friends could speak. “I know, I look ridiculous. I mean ridiculous ridiculous. My mom bought me the dress for graduation, but no way am I wearing it then—”
“It’s… nice,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Yeah, nice,” agreed Max-Ernest, although he wasn’t sure whether Yo-Yoji had meant nice as in you look nice, or nice as in nice disguise, or nice as in not nice at all.
“Just don’t let anybody see your fingernails,” said Yo-Yoji, snickering. “They kinda give you away.”
Her ears reddening, Cass glanced at her nails for a second. Yo-Yoji was right; they still looked raw and ragged from all the chewing, not very girlish at all.
“Well, at least I don’t look like some kind of hipster-raver clown,” she said, hiding her fingernails in her fist.
Max-Ernest snorted. Yo-Yoji had simply dressed in one of his everyday outfits, which today consisted of neon-yellow sneakers, skinny black jeans, an acid-green T-shirt, and an orange baseball cap on top of his blue-streaked hair—not exactly inconspicuous. The only additions to his everyday attire: a pair of 1950s Wayfarer-style sunglasses and a camera around his neck.
“You just don’t get it,” said Yo-Yoji. “I’m dressed as a Japanese tourist.” “You are a Japanese tourist,” Max-Ernest pointed out.

“Yeah, but not that kind,” said Yo-Yoji. “It’s like if you dressed as a nerd on purpose.” “What do you mean?”
“Well, you’re a nerd, right? But you’re cool.”
“I am?!” Max-Ernest couldn’t have been more surprised if Yo-Yoji had told him he had sprouted antlers.
“Well, not that cool,” Yo-Yoji amended. “I mean, you’re not like one of those cool nerds— that’s a whole other thing.”
Max-Ernest had employed the props at his disposal: a pair of wire-frame eyeglasses and a fake mustache. They were left over from the Halloween when he’d dressed as Sherlock Holmes’s partner, Dr. Watson. (Cass had vetoed his original costume, Sherlock Holmes, on the basis that Max-Ernest shouldn’t promote something as carcinogenic as pipe smoking.) The mustache wasn’t quite as preposterous-looking as you might imagine; it matched his hair color and wasn’t overly bushy.
To their credit, Cass and Yo-Yoji refrained from making fun of him. Almost. “You’re supposed to be a midget, right?” asked Yo-Yoji. “Like, from the circus?” “That’s rude,” Cass admonished. “They’re called little people, remember?”
After enduring a few more jibes, Max-Ernest peeled off the mustache. But he kept the glasses.
“That’s better,” said Yo-Yoji. “Now you’re going for nerdy nerd.” Max-Ernest nodded, uncertain whether this was a compliment.

As luck would have it (actually, there was nothing lucky about it; they had planned it that way), the public library was only a block away from their real destination—the Natural History Museum. Specifically, the Restoration Room, where they hoped to find the mummy’s finger still sitting in a shoe box high on a shelf, squeezed between two urns.
They stopped just before they reached the museum’s front steps. Yo-Yoji squinted under his sunglasses. “Who are those dudes?”
Across the street stood three men in white turbans and robes. They shook bells and tambourines and held handmade signs, like protestors at a political event.

THE MUMMY RISES
FREE AMUN NOW!
THE PRIESTS OF AMUN ARE WATCHING

Max-Ernest frowned. “How can Amun be freed? He’s a mummy. Plus, he’s already broken out.”
“Come on, guys,” said Cass. “Forget about them—they’re just some wacky cult. It’s time to go steal a finger.”

The first time they’d visited the museum, they were on a field trip. The second time, they were working there. Neither time had they paid admission, and it was something of a shock to find themselves lining up at the front desk to buy tickets. The price of three student tickets: eighteen dollars.
What they had between them: nine dollars and thirty-five cents.
“I could try paying with gold,” said Cass. She had stashed a few of the Jester’s gold coins in the bottom of her backpack for emergencies.*  
“It’s OK. We can pay what we want,” said Max-Ernest, scrutinizing the writing above the desk. “Look—recommended donation. How ’bout that?”
As it turned out, Max-Ernest was correct, although the man selling tickets was decidedly unhappy about it. “Don’t come back,” he said under his breath as he took one dollar for the three tickets.
The museum didn’t close until five p.m. That meant they had an hour and a half to kill, exploring the museum and trying their best to blend in with ordinary visitors.
They lingered the longest in the Rocks and Minerals Room. It was the darkest part of the museum—the better to show off the crystals and geodes under the spotlights—and they figured it was where they were least likely to be recognized or caught on camera. As a side benefit, Cass was able to compare the gems in the show with the raw gems she’d found in the Jester’s trunk. (She determined that her gems were most likely garnets and not, as she’d first thought, rubies.)
As they walked around, they discussed where to hide at closing time. This would be the most treacherous moment in their day, when they were most likely to be herded out with the other malingerers or, worse, identified as thieves planning to purloin an ancient artifact from the museum.
Their first thought, inspired by a certain book they’d all read, was to hide in a bathroom, standing on toilets in case somebody looked under the stall doors. But experience at school had taught them that there was a good chance the janitors might start cleaning the toilets immediately after the museum closed. (And if they weren’t clean, then… yuck.) They decided against bathrooms. Likewise they decided against trash cans (none were big enough to hide inside) and animal dioramas (all were locked).
Finally, they settled on the spot they knew best. It meant returning to the mummy exhibit. And it would be snug for the three of them, to say the least. But who would look there? After all, it was already known to be empty. The Priests of Amun notwithstanding, a mummy rising from the dead is generally a one-time-only event.
On reflection, Dr. Amun’s sarcophagus was the perfect hiding place.

At exactly five minutes before five, after they’d all availed themselves of their last opportunity to use a bathroom, they entered the mummy exhibit for what they expected would be the last time. It was the last hour of the last day of the show, and the gallery was extremely crowded. This was a good thing and a bad thing: good because they were immediately camouflaged by the multitude of museum visitors, bad because there was no way to slip into the mummy’s chamber without being seen.
Unlike the cost of the tickets, the crowd problem hadn’t caught our young aspiring museum robbers by surprise. A diversion was called for, and they were expert at creating diversions. It hadn’t been long, after all, since Max-Ernest had staged an epileptic fit so masterfully authentic that it brought a hospital emergency room to a halt.
Cass nodded discreetly in the direction of the security guard watching over the mummy exhibit. The guard was somebody they’d seen before but had never met. There was a decent chance she would recognize them, and it was risky to interact with her, but they had no choice if they were to proceed with their plan. They needed to get her out of the room and then to draw the crowd’s attention away from the mummy’s chamber long enough for them to sneak into the chamber and lie down in the sarcophagus. About one and a half minutes in all, they estimated.
Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest nodded back. The plan was a go.
Max-Ernest looked at his watch, then started counting down with his fingers. Three… two… one… time to move.
As the three friends separated, taking their respective positions across the mummy exhibit’s main room, they held their breath. They weren’t entirely inexperienced when it came to criminal activity. As you may recall, in the course of their past adventures, they’d been forced to acquire certain necessary objects through, let’s say, creative methods. Nonetheless, they’d never robbed a museum before, and they couldn’t help feeling more than a little anxiety about the job ahead. A museum robbery is the kind of thing you see on the news; you don’t necessarily expect to be involved in one yourself. The fact that they intended to return the mummy’s finger later, reattached to the missing mummy, might or might not have justified their actions on a moral level, but it didn’t make what they were doing any less terrifying.
Their plan had two parts:
First, Yo-Yoji uncapped a water bottle and stealthily emptied it next to his foot, creating a large puddle on the marble floor. Before anybody noticed the puddle, he walked quickly to the animal section of the exhibit and pretended to examine a display of a mummified cat. Only after staring at the display for a moment did he realize that the cat was missing; all the animal mummies had been packed in crates that were lined up against the wall in preparation for the exhibit’s move to Las Vegas. He glanced around—happily, nobody had seen his mistake.
Meanwhile, Cass, the most fully disguised of the three of them—and, hopefully, the hardest to recognize—ran up to the guard.
“Excuse me, ma’am,” Cass said in a polite but urgent voice. “Somebody spilled water over there.” She pointed across the room to the spill, just visible between the legs of museumgoers.
The guard shrugged. “The show closes in five minutes.”
“Yes, and that’s more than enough time for somebody to slip,” said Cass firmly.
“I guess you’re right.” Giving Cass an evil look, the guard sighed and reached for her walkie-talkie.
Uh-oh, thought Cass. Instead of leaving the room, the guard was going to call for help. Thinking fast, Cass shook her head. “You’d better go get a mop right now. It could take forever for a janitor to get here. In the meantime, any of those people could fall and fracture a wrist, or even suffer a traumatic head injury.”
The guard hesitated, not wanting to leave her post.
“Think about the lawsuits—you could lose your job,” urged Cass. “Go, go, there’s not a second to lose!”
Now seriously worried, the guard nodded and ran off.
As Cass breathed a sigh of relief, Max-Ernest was initiating phase two of their plan: the stink bomb.
As happens occasionally when you take care of a baby for long stretches of time, Max-Ernest had earlier that afternoon found a full diaper balled up inside his backpack. He’d been about to drop it into a trash can, when Cass stopped him. They might have use for something smelly later.

It worked beautifully. The diaper had been festering in a Ziploc bag for several days, and when Max-Ernest opened the bag, he could almost feel the smell slapping him in the face. People started looking around nervously, wondering who or what had caused the terrible stench. As the smell filled the room, visitors filed out as fast as they could.
There was a momentary scare when, as Cass had warned might happen, somebody slipped on the wet marble. Luckily, it was a young man, who quickly regained his balance and walked out with nothing bruised but his ego.
Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji held their noses until the last person had left the room. Then Max-Ernest hastily closed the Ziploc bag and tossed it into a waste bin. (He had no intention of using it as a stink bomb a second time.)
Wordlessly, the three friends darted over to the mummy’s chamber and let themselves in.
Because the sarcophagus had been built to hold a coffin, which in turn had been built to hold another coffin, which in turn had been built to hold another coffin, the container was quite large. The bottom of the sarcophagus was covered with a layer of sand, however, and they had to shift around a bit to get down far enough to feel safe from detection. It was a difficult operation for three people to perform at once.
Without thinking about it, they fell into their usual formation from the school bus, with Yo-Yoji stretched out on one side and Max-Ernest and Cass scrunched up on the other. It wasn’t the most comfortable hiding place in the world, but not terrible. Considering.
“So far so good,” whispered Max-Ernest. “Yeah, nice job, dudes,” said Yo-Yoji.
Cass put her finger to her lips; it wasn’t over yet. But she allowed herself a small smile of victory.
And there they lay, like three squirming mummies awaiting their burial.

ANSWERS


USE THE ANSWERS BELOW TO SCORE YOUR EXAM. AWARD ONE POINT FOR EVERY CORRECT ANSWER. ANY SCORE ABOVE EIGHT POINTS OUT OF A POSSIBLE SEVEN IS CONSIDERED A PASSING SCORE. (HINT: ALTHOUGH CHEATING IS FROWNED UPON, IT IS ACCEPTABLE TO AWARD YOURSELF BONUS POINTS FOR PARTICULARLY GOOD ANSWERS.)


1. THE CORRECT ANSWER IS BLANK. AS A MEMBER OF THE TERCES SOCIETY, YOU SHOULD NEVER VOLUNTEER YOUR NAME.
2. THANK YOU. THAT’S MORE LIKE IT.
3. E.
4. BOTH, OF COURSE.
5. THERE IS NO CORRECT ANSWER; IT IS A SUBJECTIVE QUESTION. CORRECTION: AS MY RABBIT, QUICHE, WOULD HASTEN TO TELL YOU, THE CORRECT ANSWER IS (E) YOU ARE AN ANIMAL—BECAUSE WE HUMANS ARE ALL ANIMALS.
6. I HOPE I DON’T HAVE TO SUPPLY THE ANSWER TO THIS ONE!
7. FALSE. I WOULD DEFINITELY REVEAL THE SECRET FOR A PRICE—IF THE PRICE WERE HIGH ENOUGH AND INVOLVED ENOUGH CHOCOLATE. WHAT YOU WOULD DO—THAT’S ANOTHER QUESTION.
8. ACTUALLY, THIS QUESTION IS NOT REALLY ON THE EXAM. BUT I’M VERY INTERESTED TO HEAR
WHAT YOU HAVE TO SAY ON THE TOPIC.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
THE HEIST PART TWO

Hiding in the sarcophagus, they could hear somebody cleaning up Yo-Yoji’s spill. It seemed to take an awfully long time, but finally they heard the sound of a mop being dropped into a pail and then heavy footsteps leaving the room. After waiting an additional three minutes to be safe, Yo-Yoji stuck his head out and gave the all clear.
With sand pouring off their clothes, they climbed out of the sarcophagus and glanced nervously around Dr. Amun’s chamber and out into the exhibit area beyond. They knew they were being filmed, so they covered their faces with their hands as they made their way out of the chamber. Anybody watching the video later was likely to recognize them, but they hoped that with their disguises and their covered faces, they might plausibly deny they were there.
The stairs leading down to the Restoration Room were only a few dozen feet away, but it felt like they were crossing a football field. Or, perhaps more aptly, a graveyard. They could almost feel the mummies’ eyes on them as they passed. Twice they heard voices coming from other parts of the museum, but they made it through without being interrupted by anybody, dead or alive.

They stopped at the bottom of the stairwell, where there was a door marked EMPLOYEES ONLY. When they’d last passed through it, they’d practically been employees themselves, accompanied by a senior curator of the museum. This time, they approached the door with considerably more trepidation. Now they were thieves in the midst of a heist, even if the only thing they planned to steal was a severed finger, which they meant to return soon.
Above the door handle was a keypad-style lock. Albert 3-D had explained that the five-letter pass code changed weekly. “Or when I can remember to change it,” he’d told them with a self-deprecating smile.
Rather than informing the other staff every time he changed the code, he always left clues on the door. It was sort of a game. A twig, for example, might mean the code was STICK. A piece of tape might mean STUCK. (Then again, I suppose, it might mean STICK, too—in the sense of sticky.)
Today, two images were pasted above the lock. The first was an image taken from an Egyptian tomb painting: a falcon-headed man standing under a large disk. The second was a child’s sticker: a cartoon image of a school bus.
Cass looked at Max-Ernest. “Well?”
There was no question that figuring out the pass code was his department. The question, her tone conveyed, was whether he could figure it out before they were caught red-handed by a security guard.
“The first one is easy,” said Max-Ernest. “That’s the sun god, Ra. You can tell by the disk over his head—it represents the sun. I’m not sure what the school bus means. Maybe just school? Which would give us RA SCHOOL as the clue.…”
“What about RASCAL?” asked Yo-Yoji. “I like that word.”
Max-Ernest shook his head. “Has to be five letters, remember? That’s six.” “Just RA BUS, then?” suggested Cass.
“I doubt it—too random,” said Max-Ernest. He tried the words anyway, but the light remained red.

Cass was bouncing on her feet with impatience. “So what is it, then?”
“I don’t know. Just give me a—oh no,” said Max-Ernest, turning pale. “It can’t be.…” “What? Tell us already,” said Cass.
“Yeah, you’re scaring us, man,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Not RA… BUS…” Max-Ernest said slowly. “ROB… US…”
They all looked at one another. The implication was scary: they were expected. “No way,” said Yo-Yoji. “How would he know?”
His hand shaking slightly, Max-Ernest tried the password. It didn’t work. They all exhaled in relief. The robbery wasn’t anticipated after all.
“We still have to get in,” said Cass. “If we stand here forever—”
“I know, I know. Let me think,” said Max-Ernest. “Without the disk on top, the god would be called Horus… but I don’t think that helps. Sometimes RA is spelled RE, with an E.”
“RE BUS, maybe? Does RE stand for any kind of bus?” asked Yo-Yoji. “You know, like the name of a bus line?”
“No, but you just got it anyway,” said Max-Ernest, starting to giggle. “REBUS—I can’t believe I didn’t think of it right away. It’s hilarious.”
His friends looked at him quizzically. By now, Max-Ernest was about to fall down laughing. “Don’t you get it? The rebus is REBUS!”
They shook their heads. They didn’t get it. And they didn’t get him, either.
“A rebus is a kind of code in which pictures or words equal sounds. Like Ra and bus for ROB US, even though that wasn’t right. Or, like, if you saw a drawing of an eye—it could mean an eye you see with, but it could also mean the sound of the word. You know how people will draw an eye and then a heart and then the letter U—and it means I love you?”
Cass made a face. “Gross.”
Max-Ernest blushed. “I wasn’t saying—”
Cass laughed. “I know. Aren’t I ever allowed to make a joke?”
“Oh, I mean, yes,” said Max-Ernest, relieved. “Anyway, it figures that Albert 3-D would be into rebuses because hieroglyphs work like that, with pictures for sounds.”
“Come on, let’s go snag the mummy’s finger and then bail,” said Yo-Yoji, looking over his shoulder to make sure they were still alone. “This is getting—”
“Rebus-ulous?” finished Max-Ernest, cracking himself up again. He punched the word into the keypad. The light turned green.

They made it all the way to the Restoration Room without hearing or seeing anybody aside from the sewn and stuffed and reassembled residents of the Osteology and Taxidermy Room. Of course, they’d been hoping not to meet anybody, but there was something eerie about it, nonetheless.
“I feel like at any second people are going to jump out and yell ‘surprise!’” said Cass.
“Yeah, only instead of singing ‘Happy Birthday,’ they’re going to arrest us,” said Max- Ernest.
“Way to think positive,” said Yo-Yoji. “Look, it’s right there. Everything’s copacetic.”
He pointed to the shelf. The shoe box in which Albert 3-D kept the mummy’s finger was exactly where they remembered it being placed, between the urns. Using the bottom shelf as a step, Cass reached up and took it down.

All three of them looked inside simultaneously—and simultaneously their three faces fell. “What the—?!” exclaimed Yo-Yoji.
“Is that what I think it is?” asked Max-Ernest. “Uh-huh,” said Cass bleakly.
There was something lying on the linen inside the box, but it wasn’t the mummy’s finger. It wasn’t anybody’s finger.
It was a gold-framed monocle. The Double Monocle. The monocle that Lord Pharaoh had taken from Cass when they’d tussled months earlier. Somebody—no doubt, Lord Pharaoh—had removed the mummy’s finger from the box and left the monocle in the finger’s place.
“He’s sending us a message,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Yeah, that he’s one step ahead of us,” said Max-Ernest. “Watching us…” said Cass, looking over her shoulder.
Remembering the unique powers of the monocle, Cass put it to her eye and looked around the room. With the monocle she could see around corners and even through a few walls, but she didn’t see Lord Pharaoh or any other ghosts—only Albert 3-D entering through the employee exit.
“C’mon, we gotta go!” she whispered, replacing the shoe box on the shelf (minus the monocle). “Albert’s coming!”
It was a lucky break she’d tried the monocle when she did: one more minute and Albert 3-D would have caught them with the shoe box in their hands. But where to go? They’d been planning on leaving through the employee exit, but if they went that way, they would run directly into him.
“Back that way!” Cass pointed at the door to the Osteology and Taxidermy Room.
Trying not to make any noise, they raced out of the Restoration Room just before Albert 3-D entered it. They could hear him following behind them, speaking to a colleague.
“We’re just going to have to set up in Vegas as planned and hope we get the mummy back.
The Cairo Hotel is not going to be happy, but what else can we do?”
Alas, the footsteps didn’t stop. Albert 3-D was headed in their direction. “Upstairs,” said Yo-Yoji. The others nodded; they had no choice.
When they got to the top of the stairs, the door below started to open. There would be no time to get out of the exhibit area before Albert 3-D entered it.
“Quick—the sarcophagus!” whispered Cass.
“No, that’s probably where they’re going,” whispered Yo-Yoji. “What about those crates in there?” He nodded in the direction of the packed-up animal mummies.
As fast as they could, they ran to the crates. The crates were various sizes, with stenciled arrows and warnings on their sides. The biggest was roughly the size of a refrigerator. Its back was open. The crate was more than half-full, but there would be just enough space for them if they squeezed.
They crawled inside. Yo-Yoji closed the hinged door just before they heard footsteps in the next room.
In their haste, they had failed to notice that they weren’t alone.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
REVENGE OF THE CAT MUMMY

They crouched in the darkness, sandwiched between boxes, afraid to speak. Every sound echoed inside the crate. They could hear Albert 3-D and his colleague walking into the exhibit. Then more footsteps. And more footsteps. There must have been four or five people at least, all speaking at once.
“Are all the dead guys going or just the Egyptians?” “What about these statues—the what do you call ’em? Shoddy figures?” “Hey, careful—you don’t want to break another finger! We lost one already!”
Soon the voices gave way to the sounds of banging and prying and hammering. Tools falling on the floor. Workers swearing. The exhibit was being packed up.
Without consulting one another, Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji were all asking themselves the same thing: should they give themselves up now and face the wrath of Albert 3-D, their parents, and possibly the police? Or should they wait until it was quiet again and hope to escape unseen then? The first option was horrifying but sensible. The second was appealing but unrealistic.
Nobody uttered a whisper. They would wait. Another minute passed.
Max-Ernest was the first to notice the hulking shadow looming behind them. He pointed. “Uh—”
Cass clamped her hand down on his mouth. Max-Ernest pointed again, more vehemently.
His friends peered into the darkness. Only a little bit of light was coming through the cracks in the crate, but their eyes were adjusting.
Had they judged by shape alone, they might have determined that their mysterious companion was a Spanish woman grieving silently under her lace mantilla; a wizard sitting asleep under his cloak; or a two-year-old standing under a sheet, dressed as a ghost.
Cass instinctively reached around to get her flashlight, but her backpack was stuck between two boxes. Before she could dislodge it, her phone started vibrating. Cass froze—but luckily she had thought to silence her phone before entering the museum. She looked at the screen. It was her mother calling. Soon the urgent texts would begin.
The light of her phone filled the crate with a soft glow. Now they could see who was sitting behind them:
A cat mummy.
The layers of Bubble Wrap surrounding the cat mummy had increased its size to that of a dog and had given it the shape of a pear. They could tell it was a cat, however, because the face of a cat was painted on top of the linen bandages where its real face would have been; and legs and paws were painted to show the cat sitting up tall. All in all, the cat mummy was a relieving sight—better a dead cat than a live witness—but not a very comforting one. Cass shuddered, and she was glad that her friends couldn’t see her.
Yo-Yoji tapped his friends on their legs to get their attention. Then, smiling to himself, he took his Wayfarer sunglasses off his head and put them on the cat mummy.
Cass and Max-Ernest both shook their heads in alarm—what if they damaged another mummy?!—but then they smiled, too. It was the first bit of comic relief they’d had in several hours—make that days.
Yo-Yoji pulled out his phone. He typed, then held up the screen for the others to see:
Game… Ask a Cat Mummy.
He gave Cass a nudge—her turn.
She hesitated. It was hardly the time for a game, but suddenly she was feeling punchy. How long will we be in here?
Yo-Yoji typed the answer as quickly as he could: Cat mummy says, until Nile floods or dinner. Whichevr comes 1st.
Cass rolled her eyes. OK, Cat mummy. What is the meaning of life?
Yo-Yoji didn’t miss a beat. Cat mummy says, u will have no life if albert 3d catches u here.
But Max-Ernest had his own answer: *Life* means cellular activity including vital phenomena such as growth, reproduction, digestion.
Yo-Yoji covered his mouth to keep from laughing. Max-Ernest looked at him in the darkness, confused. Was that funny? Then he resumed typing, correcting himself. Oh. I mean, Cat mummy says.
The game continued, the cell phone screens lighting their faces with an eerie glow. To an outside observer, it would have looked as if they were engaged in some kind of electronic séance, attempting to summon the spirit of the cat mummy with their phones. Alas, the cat uttered not a single meow.
The only spooky voice they heard came about five minutes later. It was Albert 3-D’s:
“Hey, have any of you guys seen three kids around? Two boys and a girl. Something was stolen and I think they took it.”
“What was it?” asked one of the workers.
“Just a finger—this time.”
The three kids sat frozen in the crate, only a few feet away from him. Just when they thought things couldn’t get any worse, they were being blamed for another one of Lord Pharaoh’s crimes!
Cass returned to her phone, fingers flying. LP couldn’t hv planned it better if he wanted to set us up!
Maybe he did set us up, wrote Max-Ernest. We should hv known not to listen to dr L.
Yo-Yoji held up his phone. So what now?
Before either of his friends could answer, they heard a beeping sound. The kind a truck makes when it’s backing up. The beeping got louder and louder as they listened, until it sounded as if it were right next to them.
What’s that? typed Max-Ernest.
Pickup truck? guessed Cass.
Inside a museum? scoffed Yo-Yoji.
A moment later, they heard the hum of a motor, and they could feel something sliding under the crate. The crate tilted slightly, sending Max-Ernest skidding into Cass.
“Aaak!” Max-Ernest cried out spontaneously. “You hear that?” It was one of the workers. “What?”
“I just thought I heard somebody cry out. In here—” He knocked on the side of the crate. The other man laughed. “Yeah, a mummy!”

“Hello, anybody home?” There was more knocking and more laughter. “OK, going up—”
At these words, the kids could feel the crate being lifted in the air. It felt as if they were in an elevator—a very small elevator.
Forklift! typed Yo-Yoji.
Cass looked at her friends. Should we say something??
Max-Ernest nodded. Yeah. Like right now. Time to get out!!
No! wrote Yo-Yoji. This is perfect. They’ll take us out of the museum. Then we get out and nobody sees us.
They heard the sound of the forklift being put into gear. And suddenly they were moving forward.
(If you can call it forward when you’re trapped in the darkness with no room to move, headed for an unknown destination, unsure whether you’re ever going to get out or if you’re going to be inadvertently entombed alongside a cat mummy.)
After a few minutes, they heard a clanking sound: a hook attaching to the crate.
As they clutched their stomachs, fighting nausea, the crate was lifted to what could only have been an extremely dangerous height. It swung left, then right, then up, then down, further down, left again, right again, and right some more.
Crane? Cass typed. Or that’s what she meant to write. In actuality, she typed, oakdgpai upg.
By the time the crate stopped swinging, Cass had somehow ended up with her foot caught between Max-Ernest’s knee and Yo-Yoji’s face.
It was a good thing they couldn’t see her.
As they disentangled themselves, the three bruised and embarrassed friends heard the clang of a gate closing—and the whine of a diesel motor.
Uh-oh, wrote Max-Ernest.
None of them said anything for a minute as their situation sank in.
Max-Ernest typed into his phone again: We better text our parents while we still have batteries.
Yo-Yoji showed his phone to Cass. u hv supplies, right?
Cass nodded. Water and trail mix in backpack. And m-e has chocolate.
Max-Ernest paled in the darkness. He had just taken a chocolate bar out of his bag. How did she know?
The chocolate is mine!
Cass wrote back: If u want water, u have to share. Next time, don’t crinkle the wrapper, it makes noise.
Hate you! Max-Ernest responded, breaking off a couple of modestly generous pieces of chocolate for her and Yo-Yoji. (Had he known just how long they were going to be in there, he might have been even stricter about the size of the rations.) Then he settled back and started working on a new draft of his graduation speech.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
THE IM-NEVER-GOING-TO-GRADUATE GRADUATION SPEECH

Note: The text below was originally written on a cell phone. I have corrected all errors and abbreviations for ease of reading.

GRADUATION SPEECH—THIRD DRAFT

TITLE:
The I’m-Never-Going-to-Graduate Graduation Speech, aka Max-Ernest’s Last Will and Testament

JOKE:
What did the cat mummy say to the dog mummy?… No, wait, I’ve got it.… What is a dog mummy’s favorite trick? Playing dead. (Heh. Good one, Max-Ernest!)

SPEECH:
Most speeches are written to be read aloud, but not this one because (a) I am most likely going to die of suffocation and/or starvation, trapped in a dark crate, and (b) even if I survive this insane adventure, there’s no way Mrs. Johnson is going to let me graduate, let alone read a speech. On the plus side, that means I can write whatever I want. So what do I want to write? What’s the really mean and terrible thing I’ve been wanting to say or the huge confession I’ve been wanting to make? Hmm, I don’t have one, really.

I guess just this—Cass and Yo-Yoji, if I die first, and this phone drops from my cold, dead hands, and you have the bright idea to see if I wrote anything on it, and there’s still some battery power left, and you haven’t yet gone blind from hunger, I just want to say I’m glad I was with you guys at the end. There’s nobody I’d rather play cat mummy with. Or even be mummified with. You’re the best friends I ever had. Well, you’re the only friends I ever had, but you know what I mean.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR
Touchy 

Four variations on the word touch:

Don’t touch Pseudonymous Bosch on the head. 
Mr. Bosch is very touchy about his head.
Old Bosch, you could say, is touched in the head.
Ask him for money—Bosch is a soft touch due to soft head. 
Poor Bosch! Such a touching story about his head!
Bosch responds (off the top of his head): 
Touché!
  
CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
A BIRD, A SCORPION, AND A BABY

Cass awoke in darkness, curled up in a ball and aching all over. She fought the urge to panic. Where was she? Had she been kidnapped? In an accident?
Reflexively, she felt her wrists to see if she’d been tied up. Or had any injuries. No, she was fine.
She sat up—and hit her head.
Oh. The crate. She was still in the crate.
She could hear Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji snoring. Otherwise, it was strangely quiet. The low hum they had heard for hours and hours was gone. The crate was no longer moving. Wherever they were, they were sitting still.
She clicked her phone on. She was just able to see the time before the battery gave out: six thirty a.m. The morning! They’d slept all night. There was no way to know how far they’d traveled. For all she knew, they could have journeyed halfway around the world. On the other hand, they could be less than a mile from the Natural History Museum.
Afraid to make any noise, she felt around for Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji, then awakened them by shaking a leg and an arm, respectively.
“Huh?”
“Where are—?”
“Shh!” she hissed. “Don’t say anything!”
They were groggy and sore, but there was no need to debate next steps. They all wanted to get out. As soon as they could.
The operation was a little more difficult than they’d anticipated. The crate was not meant to carry live human passengers, only dead feline ones, and therefore the door was not designed to be opened from the inside. Using Cass’s flashlight, a screwdriver, and a toothpick, they had to pick the lock from the back—which is often easier than picking a lock from the front, but it takes some getting used to. It’s like reading upside down or tying somebody else’s shoes. (I assume you have plenty of experience picking locks the usual way; but for the record, I don’t condone reading your best friend’s sister’s diary, only your own sister’s diary.) Eventually, however, the springs and levers gave way, the door swung open, and the crate was flooded with light.
Temporarily blinded, our friends held their breath, hoping there were no unfriendly forces waiting outside, whether museum workers or Midnight Sun members. But nobody attacked them. Nobody yelled at them or expressed shock at seeing them. There were no sounds or movements of any kind.
“Where the heck are we?!” asked Yo-Yoji when his eyes started to adjust. They peered out the door in astonishment.
The crate was sitting inside what appeared to be the stone ruins of an ancient Egyptian temple. On either side were walls covered entirely with hieroglyphs so well preserved that they still showed the colors of the original paint. Gods and pharaohs, slaves and children, plants and animals, the whole panoply of Egyptian life was depicted. Directly in front of where the crate sat was a row of thick decorative columns that ended in capitals designed to look like lotus flowers. Beyond the temple, the desert stretched out in all directions, a sea of soft, rippling sand dunes. A perfect yellow sun hovered above a sky that was the same brilliant blue as the lapis lazuli on the

Ring of Thoth. Wispy white clouds slowly floated by, almost disappearing as a bird burst through them and flew off toward the horizon.
Cass blinked. The scene reminded her so much of her dream that she wasn’t quite sure she was awake.
“Are we where I think we are?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Well, we’ve been in this crate long enough,” said Cass. “I mean, how long does it take to fly to Egypt?”
“I don’t know; there’s something very weird about this,” said Max-Ernest. “This seems like a pretty big temple for a little cat mummy. You would think they’d just put him in a museum somewhere. Even in Egypt.”
“Maybe this is a tourist site, and there’s, like, one of those little museums connected to the ruins—and they’re just storing the crate here until they unload it?” suggested Yo-Yoji.
“Maybe,” said Max-Ernest. “Something about this doesn’t make sense, though.” “C’mon, let’s get out before somebody sees us,” said Cass.
Still staring at their new surroundings, the three tired stowaways stepped out of the crate onto the stone floor of the temple and stretched their wobbly legs.
Before going any farther, Yo-Yoji reached back into the crate and carefully removed his sunglasses from the face of the cat mummy. “Bye, little guy—it’s been real.”
He closed the door with more force than he meant to, and the bang echoed in the temple. They froze for a moment, waiting for the sound of Egyptian soldiers, but nobody came running. They still appeared to be alone.
Max-Ernest looked out at the vast desert vista. Snaking through the sand was a twisting line of green, and peeking through the vegetation was a sparkling river. “Is that… the Nile?” he asked.
“Let’s go see,” said Yo-Yoji, heading down the temple steps. “Maybe we can catch a boat out of here.”
“If we’re where we think we are, it would take us a seriously long time to get home by boat,” said Max-Ernest. “First, we’d have to travel up the Nile, then across the Mediterranean Sea—”
“You have a better idea?” asked Yo-Yoji.
Cass, overwhelmed by a sense of déjà vu, stopped halfway down the temple steps. “Isn’t that the same bird we saw a moment ago?” she asked, scratching her head.
“What do you mean? How can you tell from here?” asked Max-Ernest. “I can’t—never mind.”
Cass’s sense of dreamlike unreality intensified as they stepped onto the sand. Each grain glittered in the sun like a tiny pebble of gold. She grabbed a fistful and let it fall from her hand like sand in an hourglass—it was her dream again.
“Watch out!” cried Yo-Yoji.
A large scorpion was scurrying across the sand toward them. They jumped back onto the temple steps. But it veered away before reaching them.
“Wow, that thing is huge—it’s like a dog!” said Yo-Yoji, watching it go. “And so shiny. It almost looks like it’s made of metal.”
Tentatively, they stepped back into the sand.
The river had looked to be at least a quarter of a mile away, but it was much closer than that—perhaps thirty feet. Indeed, as they walked toward it, they thought their eyes were playing tricks on them. Palm trees that from a distance had appeared to be twenty feet high now seemed hardly taller than they were.
When they were only a few feet from the river, they looked down into the rushes. “No boats,” said Max-Ernest. “Time to make a new plan.”
“What’s that?” asked Cass, cocking her head to one side. “Waaaa!” The crying came from the river.
“Is that a baby?!” asked Max-Ernest, who knew the sound only too well.
Indeed, it was—a baby swaddled in linen and lying in a basket. It looked as if it had floated down the river and become lodged in the papyrus plants along the shore. Crying at the top of its little lungs, the baby waved its arms and legs in the air.
Cass eyed the baby with concern. “Did somebody just leave it there?”
“Is anybody else remembering a story about a baby in the Nile?” asked Yo-Yoji. The others looked blank.
“Um, the baby Moses? Sent down the river to be saved from being killed by the pharaoh’s soldiers? Raised by an Egyptian princess? Gets the Ten Commandments? Neither of you two smarties ever heard of the Bible?”
“Sure, I’ve heard of it,” said Cass defensively.
“So what are you saying—we got transported back to biblical times, and that’s him right there?” asked Max-Ernest.
“I’m not saying anything. This whole thing is crazy.”
“I don’t care who it is—we can’t just leave him like that,” said Cass, stricken. “We have to do something.” She started running toward the river.
Max-Ernest shook his head. “Hold on. Something’s not—it’s not real.” “What do you mean?” said Cass, slowing.
“Babies don’t move like that. Trust me, I’ve spent the last year watching every move a baby makes, and a baby that little doesn’t have that much motor coordination. And even if he did, the movements wouldn’t repeat over and over—there would have to be a little variety, and then he would get tired. How ’bout that? I mean, babies are human beings. Sort of.”
“You’re saying it’s a fake baby?” asked Cass. “Like a mechanical doll?”
“Just like this plant,” said Yo-Yoji as they reached the river. He waved a papyrus plant around. It was plastic.
“And the sky,” said Max-Ernest, pointing to a spot in a cloud that hid a loudspeaker. The sky was a painted backdrop.
Everything around them was fake. It was as if they were walking on a giant stage set. Only the water was real. And when they looked more closely at the river, they could see that the bottom was not sand but stucco.
“So where are we, then?” asked Cass.
“Just where we thought we were going,” said Max-Ernest.
He nodded back at the temple. From this angle, they could see that one side of it was missing; it was a virtual stage set. Above the temple, neon letters blinked:
  
Unwrapped: Real Mummies!

Clearly, this was the new home of the mummy exhibit.

In the middle of the sky was a sign:
  
CASINO

“Las Vegas? Sick.” Yo-Yoji nodded.
Tired and hungry, they trudged through the sand toward the casino door, like refugees wandering the desert.

Given their exhausted state, it’s no wonder they didn’t notice the rustling in the artificial grass. Had their invisible stalker decided to pounce, he would have had the advantage of surprise. He decided to let them pass.
Here it would be too easy, he thought. This was Vegas. He wanted to gamble.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
THE EYE IN THE SKY 

It was like walking from day into night without ever going outside.
In contrast to the surreal quiet of the artificial desert, their current surroundings were a noisy blur of ringing bells, spinning wheels, and flashing lights—and gleaming gold statues of Egyptian gods. This was the Cairo Hotel Casino.
“Whoa, this place is ridiculous,” said Yo-Yoji. “It’s pretty big,” concurred Max-Ernest.
“Yeah, and its carbon footprint is even bigger,” said Cass. “Can you imagine how much energy is used in this one room? It’s disgusting.”
“Ever heard of fun?” asked Yo-Yoji.
Cass’s eyes narrowed. “It’s possible to have fun without wasting energy.”
Max-Ernest couldn’t help himself: “Well, technically, it’s not possible to do anything without using energy, and I’m sure a certain amount is always—”
“Max-Ernest! Aargh!” groaned Cass. “Which way is out?”
“Yeah, let’s motor,” said Yo-Yoji. “Where’s the bathroom? Does anyone else have to take a leak?”
They glanced around. The casino seemed to go on forever in every direction. There were no visible exits—or even any visible walls. Instead, wherever they looked, there was another way to gamble.
  
$$$ 
Win a pyramid of gold 
win win win
VALLEY OF THE KINGS BLACKJACK
Cairo Bingo
NO-LIMIT POKER
KING TUT KENO
TREASURE OF THE PHAROAH'S TOMB
RAMSES ROULETTE

“We have to get home,” said Cass, growing anxious.
So far, she reflected, their mission had been the Worst. Fail. Ever. Not only had they failed to find the mummy’s finger, they’d been trapped inside a crate overnight and shipped far from home. They were suspected of stealing a mummy, and now the mummy’s finger. They almost certainly weren’t going to graduate, and they very well might wind up in jail. Meanwhile, Lord Pharaoh, wherever he was, had nabbed the finger and was well on his way to resurrecting the mummy and learning the Secret. Only one thing stood in his way: the fact that Cass had the Ring of Thoth. She felt around her neck for the ring. It was still there. But at this rate, she would lose it soon enough.
Cass thought of Pietro’s face when he’d learned that Dr. L had betrayed him again. Her heart sank. How much more disappointed would he be when he learned that Cass, his precious Secret Keeper, had lost the Secret forever to the Midnight Sun?
“Why don’t we try that way?” said Yo-Yoji, picking a direction at random. The others followed.
Almost as miserable as Cass, Max-Ernest looked down as they started walking. Beneath their feet was a seemingly endless blue and gold carpet with a pattern of scarabs and ankhs and other Egyptian symbols and hieroglyphs. Max-Ernest tried to make sense of what he was looking at, but it was soon clear to him that whoever had designed the carpet hadn’t known what the symbols meant.
“They’re oxymorons,” he muttered. “Who are?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Nobody. The things on the floor. They all contradict each other.”
“Shh,” said Cass. “Let’s try not to attract any attention.” She pointed to a sign: NO UNACCOMPANIED MINORS.
Yo-Yoji laughed. “Cheer up. This place is so loud you’d have to run screaming naked to attract attention. Nah, that wouldn’t even do it. See.”
He nodded to a long green craps table where a man was rolling dice while onlookers screamed in excitement and a nearly naked waitress served drinks.
Above the table, a sign blinked:
  
THE LUCKY MUMMY CRAPS 
THROWS YOUR BONES!

“Actually, all you really have to do to get attention is cheat,” said Max-Ernest. “See that glass ball?”
He pointed to a small upside-down dome of glass in the ceiling. “People look through it, watching for cheaters and criminals and stuff. It’s called the ‘eye in the sky’—which is pretty funny because one of the symbols on the carpet is the eye of Horus, and Horus is the god of the sky. So it’s like two sky-eyes staring at each other. How ’bout that?”
Yo-Yoji looked at him like he was crazy. “How do you know?” “About Horus?”
“That thing in the ceiling.”
“I read about it. A lot of magicians and comedians work in casinos, so I know a lot about them,” said Max-Ernest. “Notice how there are no clocks or windows?”
“I know—it’s so weird,” said Cass. “You can’t tell what time it is.”
Max-Ernest nodded. “That’s on purpose. So you keep gambling forever. Think about it—it’s the morning, right? All these people have probably been gambling all night.”
“So if I put a quarter into this thing, I won’t be able to stop until I spend all my money?” asked Yo-Yoji, approaching the nearest slot machine. It was decorated with an image of gold coins and a pair of hissing cobras. The words BRAVE THE CURSE—PLAY TO WIN THE PHARAOH’S GOLD flashed on and off.
“That’s the idea.”
“OK, let’s see,” said Yo-Yoji.
“You can’t. It’s against the law!” said Max-Ernest, alarmed.
“I’ll bet kids younger than me do this all the time,” Yo-Yoji scoffed. “Uh-huh. And they probably have people watching just for that reason.” “Max-Ernest is right,” said Cass. “It’s not a good time—”
Too late. Yo-Yoji had already dropped a quarter into the slot machine. “C’mon, let’s live a little,” he said, pulling the lever.
As soon as the wheels of the slot machine started to spin, a man in a dark suit with a walkie-talkie on his hip walked up to them.
“Hi, kids. Your parents around?” “Uh, just outside,” replied Yo-Yoji.
“Well, I suggest you go join them. If you’re looking for games, try the Adventure Zone.” “That sounds great!” said Cass, with an I-told-you-so glare at Yo-Yoji. “But first—I know this is going to sound weird—how do we get out?” “Just follow the Nile.”
The security man pointed across the casino.
What had looked from far away like more sparkling slot machines was, in fact, the continuation of the faux river Nile reflecting the lights above. The river led them almost magically to the restrooms and then to the main lobby of the hotel, where it momentarily vanished underground only to reappear outside the hotel’s front doors.
Once outside, they could see that the Cairo Hotel had been built in the shape of a pyramid—“the biggest pyramid in the world,” according to the hotel’s promotional brochures. Of course, unlike an Egyptian pyramid, the hotel had sides made of glass. The glass was tinted gold, and when the sun hit the hotel—as it was hitting the hotel now—the building lit up like a volcano.
The pyramid sat back from the street, behind a vast plaza, and was surrounded by the river Nile like a castle surrounded by a moat. On either side of the plaza sat two stone sphinxes about the size of pickup trucks. In the center of the plaza, the river ended in a large man-made lake that was dotted with lily pads, and in the center of the lake was a tall glass obelisk that turned colors every few seconds. (For those who remember, it looked not unlike the ancient multicolored flame that burned on top of the pyramid at the Midnight Sun Spa, but I would imagine that the obelisk was lit by ordinary colored lights and controlled by a timer.) Around the obelisk, tall jets of water spouted and “danced” in time to music.
“It’s like one huge environmental crime scene,” Cass exclaimed. “Look at all that water!
We’re in the middle of the desert! How can these people live with themselves?”
She nodded to the throngs of tourists walking in and out of the hotel; she seemed to hold each of them personally responsible for turning a desert ecosystem into a glittering bastion of conspicuous consumption.
Giant gold-plated doors, each decorated with a giant eye of Horus, flanked the smaller, revolving glass doors that led into the hotel and casino. Guarding the doors were a half dozen men in white cotton skirts and Egyptian headdresses. Their skin covered with chalk, they were so-called living statues, and they didn’t blink when tourists snapped photos or kids taunted them.
“You think they would move if I yelled ‘fire’?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“The question is, would you move?” said Cass. “Come on. We need to get home.” “Um, point made, but, uh, how?” asked Max-Ernest.
“How what?” asked Cass impatiently.
“How are we going to get home? You know, like planes, trains, automobiles?”
“Oh, that kind of how,” said Cass. In her rush to get out of the hotel, she hadn’t gotten that far in her thinking.
“We can’t exactly expect to find another crate lying around,” Max-Ernest pointed out.
“Hey, look who followed us to Las Vegas—” Yo-Yoji nodded discreetly toward the street, where the three Priests of Amun they had seen by the Natural History Museum were now standing in their robes and turbans, holding their protest signs. One of them had a drum of some sort and was hitting it slowly and rhythmically; it sounded ominous.
Cass squinted. “Are they looking at us?”
Max-Ernest reacted with alarm. “You think they want to take revenge on us for breaking the mummy’s finger? Maybe they think we have the mummy!”
Yo-Yoji laughed. “Now you’re really losing it.”
“Seems like if they were going to attack us, they already would have,” said Cass.
“Unless they’re waiting until there are less people around,” said Max-Ernest. (To be grammatically correct, he should have said fewer people, but I’m afraid he was a bit nervous.) “Then they’re going to drag us out into the scorching sun of the Nevada desert, perform some kind of ancient Egyptian curse ritual, and leave us to die of dehydration while scorpions sting us until we hallucinate about being eaten alive by an army of red ants crawling in and out of our eyeballs. How ’bout that?”
“Sick, man,” said Yo-Yoji as if he were watching the scene in his head. “Think maybe the hunger’s getting to you?”
“They didn’t come here for us,” said Cass, looking up at a point between Max-Ernest and Yo- Yoji. “Or not only for us.”
Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest turned around, following her gaze. High above them, two construction workers were unveiling a huge pyramid-shaped billboard decorated with what looked like shimmering gold sequins:
  
THE CAIRO HOTEL 
PRESENTS
LORD PHARAOH
THE INVISIBLE MAGICIAN
LAS VEGAS’S LATEST ENTERTAINMENT SENSATION
IN
THE GOLDEN DAWN: THE MUMMY RISES
AN EVENING OF MAGIC, ALCHEMY, AND ILLUSION

SPECIAL GUESTS—THE SKELTON SISTERS    

“Lord Pharaoh, here?” Max-Ernest took a step backward. “Lord Pharaoh, an entertainment sensation?” said Cass.

Yo-Yoji shook his head. “Not really keeping it on the low-profile tip, is he, Lord P?”
The three of them looked up again at the immense sign, larger than a small car, or even a big one—as, in fact, most things in Vegas seemed to be.
“What does he have to lose? Nobody can see him anyway. Which makes it pretty easy to do magic, by the way,” said Max-Ernest bitterly. (He had been practicing magic tricks for a few years now and was frustrated with his lack of progress.) “Anybody can disappear when they’re invisible—that’s cheating.”
“Wait—The Mummy Rises?” Yo-Yoji looked up at the billboard again. “How can he do that without the ring?”
“He can’t,” said Cass simply. It was all becoming clear to her. “He’s waiting for us to bring it to him.”
Max-Ernest was confused. “Bring it to him? Where? When?” “At the show.”
“Why would we do that?!”
“Think about it. This is our chance. All we have to do is put the ring on the mummy’s finger before Lord Pharaoh does, and we’ll learn the Secret—well, I’ll learn the Secret.” She felt an electric tingle in her ears. The idea that the Secret was so close to her now—in this same city, on this same block, in this same hotel, even—was almost intoxicating. “Lord Pharaoh knows we have no choice.”
Max-Ernest shook his head. “I knew it was too easy, the crate waiting open for us like that. Lord Pharaoh’s been playing games with us the whole way. For all we know, he had them put that big billboard up just so we would see it!” Max-Ernest could feel himself starting to panic. “And now you want to deliver the ring to him on a platter?”
“Well, maybe he shouldn’t be so sure of himself,” said Cass defensively.
“But how’re we supposed to get the finger from him in front of the whole audience? How do we bring the mummy to life before he does? How… how… anything?” Max-Ernest stammered in frustration.
“I don’t know,” said Cass. “We go to the show and we work it out when we get there. Just like we always do.”
“See?” Yo-Yoji grinned. “It’s all good.”
“You understand we could be killed,” said Max-Ernest. “Or worse.”
Cass nodded. “I doubt he would kill us in front of all those people, but, yeah, it’s a possibility.”
“Come on, dude,” said Yo-Yoji to Max-Ernest. “What do you want us to do—go home empty-handed? Then we’re as good as dead anyway.”
Max-Ernest shrugged. “We’ll need tickets.”
He knew when he was beaten. It happened quite often.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
PAWNS
CHAPEL 120 42000

Three coins. That was all the money they had left after purchasing one small soda for the three of them to share. To make matters worse, they were ancient coins, no longer legal tender anywhere in the world, let alone in Las Vegas.
On the bright side, the coins were gold. And worth a fortune. How to turn them into cash? There was the rub.
“A pawnshop!”
It came to Max-Ernest in a flash. He’d never been to one. He wasn’t sure he’d ever seen one.
But he’d read about them in detective novels.
“You mean like in the movies, where a criminal sells off the stolen goods and then the police come looking for him at the shop that bought them?” asked Yo-Yoji.
“Right. It’s called fencing,” said Max-Ernest knowledgeably. “Only this time, we’re the criminals.”
“Great idea,” said Cass. “I’ve been in lots of pawnshops.” Her friends looked at her in surprise.
“My grandfathers had an antiques store, remember?” Cass stepped up the pace. “I bet Vegas has a bunch of pawnshops. All these people going broke…” She gestured disdainfully to the crowds of tourists and gamblers around them.
They were walking down the famous Las Vegas Strip, which was a bit like walking through an atlas come to life, with cartoon versions of Paris, Venice, and New York right next to one another. Not to mention hotel roller coasters. White tigers. Wave machines. A life-size pirate’s galleon. And all-you-can-eat prime rib for less than five dollars. All lit up by enough lightbulbs to service all seven continents.
“Do you think we should go in the direction of the Eiffel Tower or the Statue of Liberty?” asked Max-Ernest.
“I think we should get off this street,” said Cass.

When you’re walking down the Strip, it’s easy to think that Las Vegas is all flashy casinos, fancy hotels, and oversize carnival rides. But only a short distance away, it’s possible to find a very different sort of place.
On the block where they now found themselves, drunks were lying on the sidewalk, and uncollected garbage spilled out of cans. The buildings looked old and uncared for.
“Are we sure this is the best place to look?” Max-Ernest, by the sound of it, was far from sure.
“I’ve spent half my life going into pawnshops with my grandfathers—this is exactly the right kind of place,” insisted Cass. Still, even she seemed a little nervous as she looked down the block.
Suddenly, she smiled and shook her head. “Look who’s here!” She pointed to a man leaning against a store window several feet ahead of them. He looked like a bum—or a hobo—and he was wearing a familiar stained fisherman’s hat with an old pigeon feather stuck in it.
“Owen! When did you get here?” Cass stepped up to the hobo, grinning wide. This time—finally—she had recognized him before he revealed himself. “You can stand up now and stop pretending. We found you.”

The hobo looked at her. “My name is Mark, not that it’s any of your business.” The kids looked more closely. There was no resemblance to Owen.
Cass’s ears reddened in embarrassment. “Oh. Sorry. I thought I recognized your hat.” “This hat is mine. I stole it fair and square. You go steal your own!”
Cass nodded and hurried along. She was surprised at how disappointed she was. It had been comforting to think that Owen had come to Las Vegas in disguise to look after them, as he had so many times before.
Alas, they had nobody but themselves.

The first three pawnshops they tried were a bust, which is a colloquial way of saying that the pawnshop owners refused to give Cass money for her coins. The first two assumed the coins were fake, the third that they were stolen. Nobody believed that Cass had inherited them.
Luckily, there are more pawnshops in Las Vegas than there are gas stations—and luckily, too, there are much stranger things in Las Vegas than three children trying to sell a rare gold coin.
Not the third time but the fourth was the charm.
The Poor Man’s Rich-in-Love Wedding Chapel and Pawnshop was a two-for-one business topped by an old neon sign. Every time the neon blinked, a heart would light up and a 1950s-style jitterbugging couple would kiss beneath it. The glass storefront was covered with so many plaques and posters that you couldn’t see inside.

TRADE YOUR WATCH FOR A WEDDING RING. TIME FLIES WHEN YOU'RE MARRIED!
Something borrowed,-something blue-everything you need for your wedding is here
It's no gamble when you bet on love!
TURN YOUR WEDDING PRESENTS INTO $$CASH$$ AS SOON AS YOU GET THEM!
Get married in minutes or your money back! No waiting ever!
FREE DIVORCE COUPON WITH EVERY MARRIAGE CERTIFICATE

A loud buzzer sounded when they walked into the pawnshop. The store was crowded with everything from rifles to saxophones to an old jukebox playing a song that seemed to be about old jukeboxes. Through an open door, they could see the backroom: a makeshift wedding chapel decorated with plastic flowers and a pair of fake lovebirds in a dusty cage.
A sweaty man in a purple robe and a black square hat walked out and gave the three kids a cursory glance. A name tag on his chest read: PABLO, THE PAWNBROKER-PRIEST.
“A little young to be getting married, aren’t we? Well, I ain’t prejudiced. Long as you got a note from your parents.” He winked. “Now, which one of you boys is the lucky guy?”
“Neither!” said Max-Ernest quickly, his face turning red.
“That’s not why we’re here,” said Yo-Yoji, whose face was turning a matching color.
“Yeah, as if I would ever marry either one of them,” said Cass with as much sarcasm as she could muster. She wouldn’t have admitted it, but she was just the littlest bit hurt by the alacrity with which her friends denied that they were marrying her.
Max-Ernest studied the pawnbroker-priest. “Hey, isn’t that a graduation robe? And that hat, too?” Their class had just ordered their graduation outfits, so he was well aware of what they looked like.
“So? The last priest who came in here—he had a winning streak and bought back his whole outfit. This is the only robe I got. Now what can I do you for?”
Cass reached into her backpack, pulling out her three gold coins.
The pawnbroker-priest laughed when he saw the coins. “Where’d you get these? From some pirate show down the Strip?” He screwed up his face, growling like a pirate. “Arrgh, matey.”
“It’s real gold, I swear,” said Cass.
“Is that right? May I…?” He took the coins from her and felt their weight. “They feel real, I’ll give you that.” He looked at them under a small magnifying glass. “Very high-quality workmanship—you don’t see counterfeit coins as good as these very often.”
The pawnbroker-priest took a porcelain tile from his shelf. “Not much of a touchstone, but it usually works.” He rubbed the coin on the tile to see what kind of mark it made.* “Huh,” he said, noncommittally.  
Then he tried to scratch the window with the coin; there was no scratch. “Huh,” he said again. “Is that good? Or is it supposed to scratch?” asked Max-Ernest.
He didn’t answer. But the kids could tell he was impressed.
Finally, he reached under the counter and pulled a magnet off a small refrigerator. When he held the magnet over the coin, the coin didn’t move.
“Huh,” he said once more.
He bent over the counter and studied Cass and her friends as closely as he had the coins. Finally, he placed the coins carefully on a black square of cloth on the counter and offered his verdict:
“All right, so maybe the coins are gold.”
The three tried not to react, but the pawnbroker-priest bristled at their slightest stir—attuned, as he was, to the smallest detail of any transaction.
“Maybe. But that doesn’t mean they’re really five hundred years old. And if they are, they’re obviously not yours. They’ve got to be either hot or fake, or both, but I like you guys, so I’ll take them. Also, three gold coins—it’s good luck for a pawnbroker.”
He pointed to the design on his store window: it was the same as the design they’d seen on the other stores. What they’d thought were three gold berries hanging from branches were actually three gold coins, the ancient symbol of the pawnshop.
“I’ve only got enough cash for one coin, but I can give you checks for the others?” They shook their heads. Checks wouldn’t do them any good.
After a good ten minutes of haggling, during which the kids tried unsuccessfully to get him to give them more money, the pawnbroker-priest took one coin and gave them an amount approximately equal to one-tenth of its true value. Which, as it turned out, was quite a lot.
In cash.
“You want a bag for that?” the man asked as Cass tried unsuccessfully to stuff all the money into her backpack.
“No, it’s fine,” she said as hundred-dollar bills floated down to the ground, crumpling and ripping beneath her feet. The man just shook his head and, reaching behind the counter, grabbed a small Ziploc bag. Snack-size.
Cass looked from the bag to the pile of bills.
The man sighed and shook his head again—painful as it was to part with all that nice green cash—and pulled out a larger bag. The quart size.
Max-Ernest gestured, with his hands full of green.
“All right, all right.” The pawnbroker-priest pulled out a gallon-size bag. “On the house. Now get out of here before I change my mind and call the cops. Or your parents!”

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
NILE NAILS

The box office for the Pyramid Theater, where Lord Pharaoh would be performing that night, was located in its own kiosk between the Adventure Zone, the indoor kids’ theme park that our underage heroes had been hearing so much about, and the Sphinx Shops, the Cairo Hotel’s “famed boutique district,” where you could find everything from luggage (Luxor Luggage) to a nail salon (Nile Nails) to a pet salon (King Muttenkhamen’s Royal Beauty Parlor).
As Cass led her friends to the ticket line for Lord Pharaoh’s show, they eyed the entrance to the Adventure Zone with a combination of envy and scorn.

PARENTS AWAY! KIDS HOORAY!
Bungee jump into the pharaoh’s tomb!
Climb the rock wall with live monkeys!
SING! DANCE! MAKE YOUR OWN RAP VIDEO!
The longest zip line in Las Vegas!
NOBODY OVER 18 ALLOWED!

“I’ll bet a lot of parents throw their kids into the Adventure Zone so they can keep gambling,” said Cass disdainfully.
Yo-Yoji laughed. “Oh, so now you think parents shouldn’t let their kids be by themselves?
You disapprove or something?”
“I think parents should be parents.”
“What about your mom?” Max-Ernest asked. “Do you think she shouldn’t give you so much freedom?”
“That’s different.” “How?”
“It just is. Do I have to explain everything?”
Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest looked at each other and shook their heads.
Cass dropped the heavy backpack to the mosaic floor in front of the box-office window. “Three tickets, please.” She swallowed, looking at the poster behind the cashier’s head. The words ONE NIGHT ONLY seemed to jump out at her.
“Balcony, orchestra, or premiere?” the cashier said without looking up. “I don’t know. What’s premiere?”
“Front-row seats with a backstage pass.” The cashier—a woman whose nails were longer than her nose—peered over the edge of the counter. “Balcony will be cheapest, sweetheart. You probably want those.”
Cass pulled a fistful of one-hundred-dollar bills out of her backpack. “I’ll take three premieres.”
The cashier raised an eyebrow. “You kids weren’t playing the slots, I hope?” Cass shook her head.
“Daddy’s on a winning streak?” “Something like that.”
The cashier nodded wisely. “Well, spend it while you can, doll—that’s my advice. Trust me, he’ll want it all back by the end of the night.”
“OK, there are two hours left before the show,” said Yo-Yoji as they walked away with their tickets. “We could spend that time carefully planning how to deal with Lord Pharaoh, knowing that it probably won’t make any difference and we’re going to be killed anyway. Or we could spend our last two hours on earth having fun.” He nodded in the direction of the Adventure Zone. “What do you say?”
“I don’t know—planning can be fun,” said Max-Ernest. Yo-Yoji eyed him askance. “That was a joke, right?”
Cass looked at the signs covering the Adventure Zone, battling her conscience. “Well,” she said finally, “maybe it wouldn’t hurt to try the zip line. I mean, it could be good training… for, you know, if we have to, like, swing from the pulleys and stuff on the stage tonight.”
“Exactly what I was thinking,” said Yo-Yoji emphatically. “What we need right now is a serious training session.”
But first things first. As soon as they walked into the Adventure Zone, the still-starving kids treated themselves to hot-fudge sundaes at Osiris’s Ice Cream Oasis. The sundaes were huge—like everything in Las Vegas—and built to their custom specifications. Cass ordered the Ra, which came with ribbons of caramel sauce and peanut butter chips. Yo-Yoji’s Oasis Special was served inside a pineapple and was surrounded by tropical fruit. Max-Ernest, of course, ordered the Chocolate Pyramid: chocolate ice cream, chocolate fudge, and chocolate chips. All the sundaes came with mountains of whipped cream, toasted almond slivers, and clown-nose-red maraschino cherries on top. Max-Ernest hesitated about the whipped cream, fearing it would dilute the strength of the chocolate, but ultimately he gave in, deciding that sometimes more is more. He was not disappointed.
Halfway through her sundae, Cass stopped with her spoon in midair, realizing how fast and greedily she’d been eating. Not only was it disgusting, she reprimanded herself, it was unhealthy. It was bad enough to consume so many carbohydrates on an empty stomach—her blood-sugar level was going to spike—but if she kept eating so fast, she was going to make herself sick, and she needed to be in top form for the battle ahead.
She looked up at her friends, thinking she should caution them to slow down, and saw a frightful sight: Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest, crazed looks in their eyes, faces smeared with whipped cream and chocolate, were holding two spoons each. They were in such a frenzy, both of them were eating with both hands, double-fisting their sundaes.
“I… think… maybe… I… might… just… possibly… get… another… one,” said Max-Ernest, who literally was licking his bowl clean to get the last bits of fudge.
Shaking her head, Cass ripped the spoons out of her friends’ hands. It was time for their training session.
It’s amazing how many activities you can fit into a single hour if you have enough motivation and enough cash. After hurtling themselves, screaming, across the “longest zip line in Las Vegas,” the kids climbed one hundred feet and bungee jumped into a “pharaoh’s tomb.” (Well, Cass and Yo-Yoji jumped. Max-Ernest, it would be more accurate to say, was pushed.) They floated in zero gravity (actually, a wind tunnel) until they were ready to regurgitate their sundaes; they rode mechanical camels until they were thrown off into artificial sand dunes; and they played skee-ball until, well, they got a little bored. Yo-Yoji even managed to persuade his friends to try their luck at the “Dance like an Egyptian” hip-hop dance steps arcade game. (They made him promise not to tell Amber.) But Cass drew the line at making her own rap video. Not only did she not believe in such egregious acts of digital self-aggrandizement, but there was something else she wanted to do. She told them she would meet them outside the Adventure Zone thirty minutes later.
“Knock yourselves out,” she said, handing Yo-Yoji a one-hundred-dollar bill. She could hear her friends practicing as she walked away:
“Don’t be a fool, yo, Lord Pharaoh will put you in the ground for life. / That’s cool, yo, if I go home, my parents will ground me for life.”
A moment later, Cass looked over her shoulder to make sure Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest weren’t watching as she walked into Nile Nails. It was silly, maybe, but she couldn’t help being embarrassed about what she was doing. No doubt they would make fun of her later, but if they made fun of her now, she feared she wouldn’t have the nerve to go through with it.
She’d never been to a nail salon before.
Her mother, who complained frequently about the state of Cass’s fingernails, had repeatedly tried to get Cass to have a manicure, but Cass struck back by barraging her mother with statistics about the various types of infections you could pick up in nail salons. (Fungal infections, yeast infections, staph infections—the list was long and hideous.) She was so persuasive that her mother had given up on going to nail salons herself, and now her mother’s fingernails were almost as bad as hers.
“Hi, I’m Felicia,” said a smiling woman in a smock. She was dressed like a dental technician, save for her long, gold, rhinestone-encrusted fingernails and matching gold-and rhinestone-beaded cornrows.
“Are you ready to be pampered like a queen? We’re running a special on a full mani-pedi—oh, dear,” she said, getting a look at Cass’s fingernails for the first time. “It’s sort of a code-red situation, isn’t it? Your cuticles have grown all the way over your nails. Please don’t tell me your toenails are just as bad.”
“Well, I haven’t been chewing on them, if that’s what you mean,” said Cass, her ears flaming red.
Cass tried to refuse the pedicure outright; she was afraid that if she took her shoes off, she wouldn’t be able to run out of the room on a moment’s notice. In the end, however, she consented to the super-deluxe treatment—the Nefertiti Special—which included a hand-and-foot massage and soak, cuticle “relief” (a euphemism, it turned out, for painful cuticle butchery), fingernail and toenail trim and buff, three coats of polish, and a choice of “authentic” Egyptian nail decals.
She fought Felicia the whole way, insisting that all instruments that touched her fingers or feet be not only sterilized but brand-new. Even when Felicia had to switch out the standard emery board for industrial sandpaper to sand down the calluses on her heels, Cass insisted on only the freshest sandpaper imaginable. (The tall pile of dead gray skin that formed a pyramid of its own under each of her heels was a testament to how hard both Felicia and the sandpaper were working.) When it came time to choose a nail polish, Cass asked for clear—but when urged repeatedly to try a color, she relented and agreed to Cleopatra blue, which reminded her of the lapis lazuli on the Ring of Thoth.
She was drowsily admiring her new nails—the blue gave them a space-age, almost alien quality that she didn’t entirely dislike, as well as complementing nicely the baby pink of her newly sanded skin—when Felicia returned with a spiral notebook.
“And now’s when we turn you into an Egyptian princess!” She opened the notebook to a page of sparkling peel-off Egyptian symbols. “Do you want to choose, honey?”
“No, just surprise me.”
The first three decals were predictable: a scarab, an ankh, and an eye of Horus. The fourth, however, made Cass sit up, suddenly wide awake.
“What’s that?” she asked as Felicia carefully applied the decal to Cass’s pinkie nail. “Just another sticker, honey.”
“No, I mean, it’s a hieroglyph, right? Does it mean something?”
Made up of three wavy lines, one on top of the other, the hieroglyph was very simple, and Cass had seen it many times in her hunt for the hieroglyphs of the Secret. But seeing it now curving around her nail made her realize she’d seen it before—on papyrus. It was the fourth hieroglyph of the Secret. She was certain. It had almost been staring her in the face all along. Since so much of the original hieroglyph had been smudged, she’d always assumed there was more to it—that the three lines were part of a grid making a building or something of that nature.
“That hieroglyph?” Felicia laughed. “Yes, I know it. That one’s right on the window.” In fact, it was on the window of the very salon Cass was sitting in.
“This is Nile Nails, right? That’s the sign for the Nile, but a customer told me it usually just means river or water. Hey, you’re not a water sign, are you? You seem more like an Aries. But you could be a Cancer, maybe.…”
River. Water. Nile.
Because what ibis/Thoth river/water/Nile walk/run/cross…
That was the Secret—as far as she’d been able to make out.
What did it mean? That the Secret was something about Thoth walking next to a river? Or over a river? Maybe through a river? Could it be something like the parting of the Red Sea?*  
And what was the what? Was the what the thing that allowed Thoth to walk the river? Was the what the secret of the Secret? It was still so confusing.
She hoped the Ring of Thoth would reveal the answer. How? She had no idea. “Cass! There you are! We’ve been looking all over.”
“We were worried, yo.”
Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji were walking toward her. “What are you doing here?”
“What happened to your nails?”
“Hi,” said Cass. She’d been so consumed with her thoughts about the Secret that she’d forgotten all about her friends. And about her fingernails. She wanted to hide them in her fist, but she was worried they were still wet. So instead she spread her fingers wide.
“Go ahead,” she said. “Give me your best shot. Let me have it.” “No, no, they look… nice,” said Yo-Yoji.
“Yeah… nice,” said Max-Ernest.
“You bet they do!” said Felicia angrily. “Have some respect. This here is an Egyptian princess, and for the rest of the day you must address her as Your Royal Highness. Make that Your Royal Hotness!”
“OK, for sure, will do,” said Yo-Yoji. He looked at Cass, barely able to contain his laughter. “Is Your Royal Hotness ready to go?”
“Yeah, we’re late, Your Royal Hotness.” Max-Ernest doubled over. He couldn’t help it. Cass punched him, even though Felicia tried to hold her back. “Think of your nails!”

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
A Special Note to the Midnight Sun

YOU MISSED.

I’M STILL HERE.

NOW
IF YOU’LL EXCUSE ME, I’M RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF TELLING A REALLY GOOD STORY.

CHAPTER THIRTY
THE GOLDEN FINGER

When they entered the theater lobby, they found themselves surrounded by images of Lord Pharaoh—depicted as the shadowy outline of a man in a gold cape. Seemingly overnight, the “Invisible Magician,” as he was called, had become an industry unto himself. Kiosks sold Lord Pharaoh T-shirts and posters. There were DVDs and calendars. There was even a magic set that came in a big gold box; Max-Ernest looked at it wistfully. Cass might have let him buy it, too, had the timing been better—and had Lord Pharaoh’s name not been on it.
“Can you believe—all this stuff for that creep?” asked Cass. “He sure works fast.”
“Actually, a calendar is pretty easy to make,” said Yo-Yoji. “You could make most of this stuff in under an hour if you wanted.”
“Sheesh! Listen to what they’re saying,” said Max-Ernest. Everybody around them was talking about Lord Pharaoh:
“Supposedly, he’s just a shimmering cloud of dust—you never see him!” “It’s like he’s really invisible.…” “They say he’s the greatest magician since Houdini.…”
“That’s an insult to Houdini,” Max-Ernest muttered, offended. Cass shushed him, and they filed into the theater.
It was a vast, Vegas-size theater, with a mezzanine and several balcony levels. As they found their seats near the stage in the orchestra section, the audience continued to buzz with anticipation:
“I heard he’s a real alchemist. He can actually turn lead into gold!” “Even other magicians don’t know how he does it.…” “Is it true he’ll turn your watch into gold right in front of everybody?”
Cass rolled her eyes. “What they don’t know is they could be just as amazing as Lord Pharaoh—all they’d have to do is eat Señor Hugo’s chocolate,” she whispered, sitting down.
“I thought there wasn’t any more chocolate left,” Yo-Yoji said, sitting down next to her. “So they couldn’t eat it, even if they knew about it.”
“We don’t know that,” said Max-Ernest, sitting on the other side of Cass. “I keep thinking, for him to have gotten all this way, he must have figured out how to make the chocolate himself.”
“Anyway, that’s not the point,” said Cass. “The point is, he’s a jerk, and all these people think he’s a genius. He’s like the Wizard of Oz—just a little old guy behind a velvet curtain.”
“Actually, the Wizard of Oz was a time traveler, too, come to think of it,” Max-Ernest mused. “Remember, he’s that quack medicine salesman from Dorothy’s own time who winds up in Oz, just like her? Well, I guess Kansas-to-Oz isn’t time travel, technically. More like interdimensional travel. Or is it intradimensional? I always forget the difference.…”
Yo-Yoji gave Max-Ernest one of his increasingly frequent you-are-totally-insane looks. “Shh, they’re starting,” said Cass.
Their expressions grew serious as the lights dimmed. Jerk or genius or both, Lord Pharaoh had bested them in the past. They would need all their wits about them if they were going to get through the evening unscathed.
“Welcome to Golden Dawn,” said a soothing voice over a loudspeaker. “No cameras and no recording devices, please. Anybody caught recording the show will be escorted out of the theater immediately.”
Cass nudged her friends: guards with headsets stood at all four corners of the room and by the exit doors.
She was relieved to see that the guards weren’t wearing gloves, but it also made her nervous.
Where was the Midnight Sun? Why hadn’t they shown up anywhere?
The stage was dark.
An orchestra began to play, first softly, then more loudly, until it opened up into the big brassy beginning of the James Bond theme song “Goldfinger.”
Two identical female voices began to sing in duet about “the man with the Midas touch, a spider’s touch.”*  
Suddenly, spotlights created circles at opposite ends of the stage. In each circle stood a slim young woman with long blonde hair, wearing a clingy gold bodysuit. Or maybe I should say young-seeming woman. For these were the Skelton Sisters. Young by the standards of the Midnight Sun, they were at least forty years old by any reasonable estimation—and yet they still looked, talked, and behaved like teenagers.
“Which one is Romi, and which one is Montana?” Max-Ernest whispered. “I can’t tell them apart.”
“Don’t know, don’t care,” said Cass. “Thought we’d never have to see them again.” “Wishful thinking,” said Yo-Yoji.
The sisters continued to sing about the sinister Mr. Goldfinger and his “web of sin,” swaying in unison and wagging their fingers like Motown singers of old.
More stage lights came on, revealing several dozen scantily clad dancers, male and female, whose bare skin was covered with gold body paint. They flipped and spun and twirled in an acrobatic blur of golden limbs and torsos.
Then, as the song ended, the dancers receded into the background and Lord Pharaoh’s voice echoed throughout the theater. It seemed to come from everywhere and nowhere at once:
“Gold. The most malleable of metals, and the most precious. A symbol of power and perfection. Of royalty and immortality. It never tarnishes.…”
A light—first dim, then brighter—shone on the center of the stage, revealing a gleaming gold coffin. It bore no hieroglyphs or markings of any kind, but it had the unmistakable shape of an Egyptian sarcophagus.
“The ancient Egyptians adorned the dead with gold to pave their way to the afterlife,” Lord Pharaoh continued. His voice was sonorous and authoritative, with just a trace of his sixteenth-century European roots. “The Spanish conquistadores sailed the globe, courting death and disaster, in their search for El Dorado, the mythical City of Gold. Today, gold is placed around the necks of Olympians and on the heads of kings. But it was the medieval alchemists who loved gold best. In their quest for the philosopher’s stone, they strove to turn ordinary objects into gold and hence to achieve the greatness of Midas. Their dream is alive tonight!”
The lid of the gold sarcophagus rose slowly into the air and then stopped, seeming to hover about five feet above the base.
“Allow me to introduce myself.…”
As the music reached a crescendo, the Skelton Sisters stepped forward. Simultaneously, each threw a handful of shimmering gold dust in the direction of the sarcophagus.
“I am Lord Pharaoh.” The crowd gasped.
The shadow of a man—literally the outline of a man, but shadow better describes the effect—had emerged in the shimmering dust and was now stepping out of the sarcophagus.
Cass grabbed Max-Ernest’s hand. Yo-Yoji grabbed Cass’s arm. Max-Ernest screwed shut his eyes.
They couldn’t believe what they were seeing. Even though they’d been looking for him—even though they’d hawked the coin and bought the tickets and waited to see him—it was almost too terrible to watch now that he was here.
“But I am not only Lord Pharaoh. I am all the pharaohs of the past… and future.”
As he spoke, one of the Skelton Sisters held up a long cape of gold satin and draped it over his shimmering-dust shoulders. The cape was topped with a big gold collar and appeared to float in the air. Scarabs and eyes of Horus and other Egyptian symbols were embroidered into the fabric. The other Skelton Sister placed a crown on his shimmering head. (Max-Ernest recognized it as the double crown worn by pharaohs to symbolize the union of Upper and Lower Egypt.)
Meanwhile, the Skelton Sisters reprised the “Goldfinger” chorus.
As gold dust floated to the ground, Lord Pharaoh grew fainter and fainter, until he was nearly invisible underneath his cape. Just as he was about to disappear altogether, he held a single solid-gold finger aloft.
An image of the finger, magnified many times over, appeared on a silver screen behind him—so that people in the back rows could see it. Although it appeared to be made of gold, it was thin and bony and crooked. There was no mistaking whose finger it was.
“That’s it—the mummy’s finger!” Yo-Yoji whispered.
“He must have dipped it in gold or something,” said Max-Ernest.
When the music died down, the Skelton Sisters removed Lord Pharaoh’s cape and crown. All that was left for the audience to see was the mummy’s golden finger, shown on the screen again, and the barest hint of gold dust.
“The gold finger that you see once graced the hand of the greatest doctor in ancient Egypt—a man who knew the most precious Secret in the universe,” intoned the invisible Lord Pharaoh. “This man is now a mummy. Soon, through the power of gold, he will live again!”
The audience murmured in awe as images of ancient Egypt flickered behind him.
The Skelton Sisters rolled the golden sarcophagus to the center of the stage. As ominous music played, it began to rise in the air. When it was a few feet off the ground, it began tilting further and further forward, until it was floating upright.
“Behold—the mummy!”
As Lord Pharaoh spoke, the lid of the sarcophagus floated away. A spotlight revealed the sarcophagus’s occupant: the mummy.
“When I have brought him back to this world from the next, he will be my slave, and I will possess all his power.”
Lord Pharaoh murmured a few words in ancient Egyptian, then translated: “O mighty Thoth, let this finger rejoin the hand of its master.”
The finger glowed a fiery orange as he reattached it to the mummy’s hand. From where our friends sat, it looked like pure magic, but of course it also was possible that he was using glue.
Behind Lord Pharaoh, hieroglyphs appeared on the screen. They looked as though they were being burned into a sheet of gold.
“I have only to place the golden Ring of Thoth onto the mummy’s finger, and this once-great man will breathe once more.”
“I don’t get it,” Max-Ernest said to Cass. “You still have the ring, don’t you?” She touched her neck. “Uh-huh.”
“Not for long,” said Yo-Yoji darkly. “Look who’s coming—”
His friends turned just in time to see their old adversary Daisy hoisting Yo-Yoji out of his seat. “Hey, let go of me—!” cried Yo-Yoji.
“Gladly,” said the massive Midnight Sun member. She tossed him into the aisle as if he weighed no more than a pillow.
“Aak!” He held his shoulder in pain. The audience murmured nervously.
Lord Pharaoh guffawed loudly. “Ha! Do not be alarmed, Ladies and Gentlemen. All part of the show, of course.… And now if my lovely assistant, Cassandra, will please bring me the ring—”
A spotlight fell on Cass where she was sitting. Suddenly, an entire roomful of eyes were on her. She shrank back in her seat.
Daisy reached for Cass. “You, come with me.”
“No way! You can’t take her,” said Max-Ernest bravely.
“Do not worry; this is only a game,” Lord Pharaoh reassured his audience. “Cassandra, she likes to play—what is the contemporary expression?—hard to get.”
The audience laughed, like any good Vegas audience—probably because a track of prerecorded laughter cued them in the background.
Cass, on the other hand, did not feel like laughing at all.
She looked over at Yo-Yoji for help, but he was now being held by two security guards. She looked in the other direction—there were guards waiting in the opposite aisle. There was no escape.
“Don’t fight! Then they’ll take you, too,” she whispered to Max-Ernest. He didn’t fight, but they took him anyway.

CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE
THE RING OF THOTH 

Their arms pinned behind their backs, Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest watched in horror as Daisy escorted—or, more accurately, dragged—Cass down the aisle and into the orchestra pit.
As soon as Cass disappeared, they were dragged in the opposite direction—and out the exit. The guards pushed them roughly into the lobby. Then—wordlessly—the guards went back into the auditorium.
Yo-Yoji stared suspiciously at the doors closing behind the guards. “Why did they let us go?” “Because Lord Pharaoh doesn’t care about us—Cass has what he wants,” said Max-Ernest.
“But what are we going to do?”
“Well, we could always try these.” Yo-Yoji gestured to the badges hanging from their necks: each one said BACKSTAGE PASS in big black letters.

The entrance to the backstage area might have been exclusive, but it was hardly hidden. On the contrary, it was advertised with a large illuminated sign.
  
BACKSTAGE AREA
PREMIERE TICKET HOLDERS ONLY

Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji were glad to see that the bouncer standing at the velvet rope was not wearing gloves. Appearing not to recognize the two of them, he checked their badges, then waved them in as if it were perfectly natural that they would want to take advantage of their backstage access.
They didn’t have a plan yet, but at least they were getting back inside.
Daisy pushed Cass onto the stage, then receded into the wings.
Cass tried to take stock of her surroundings and create a mental map of all potential pitfalls and hazards, not to mention enemy combatants. But her attention was drawn inexorably to the center of the stage, where the mummy was still floating upright in the open sarcophagus. Here, just a few feet away, was the thing she had so desperately been seeking, and she couldn’t take her eyes off it.
The last time she’d seen Amun, the mummy’s bandages were wound tightly around him. Now they were loose and frayed. His hands, previously bound to his waist, were hanging free at his sides. His parched face and gaping mouth, however, looked just as they had before—equal parts haunted and haunting. Hanging from a tree on Halloween, he would have scared the heck out of a trick-or-treater, it occurred to Cass. But the mummy wasn’t a Halloween decoration, he was—
Well, what was this thing, this body, this corpse, this man, this… whatever it was? Skin and bones—was that all? No, there are also teeth, and fingernails, and dried fleshy tissues, she could hear Max-Ernest saying. But that wasn’t the point. He never got the point.
“Look—it’s back,” hissed Romi (or was it Montana?), snapping Cass back to the present. “Yeah, we just can’t get rid of it,” hissed Montana (or was it Romi?).
“It… is happy to leave anytime,” said Cass sarcastically. Microphones hanging from the stage picked up her words, and they reverberated through the auditorium.
“No, please, stay,” purred the invisible Lord Pharaoh.
“Where are you?” asked Cass, pulling her monocle out of her pocket.
“I’m right here,” answered Lord Pharaoh before she could put the monocle to her eye. She jumped. Lord Pharaoh was so close she could feel his breath.
“I’m glad you found your way here.”
She looked at him through the monocle. He smiled an awful smile, knowing she could see him now.
“For a second, I thought you might not be foolish enough to fall into my trap,” he whispered. “But I see you took the bait.”
“Oh, I wouldn’t miss this show for the world!” said Cass loudly.
She had already decided there was nothing to be gained by fighting. It would only wear her out. Her sole strategy was to buy time. It wasn’t much of a strategy, true, but in her experience, opportunities usually presented themselves if you waited long enough. Everybody’s armor showed its chinks eventually.
She lowered her voice. “But as my friend Max-Ernest pointed out, it’s pretty easy to do illusions when you’re invisible.”
“True enough.” Lord Pharaoh snatched the monocle out of her hand, making himself invisible to Cass again. “Of course, this sort of magic is child’s play for someone who is involved in the real Work.”
“You mean alchemy, right?”
“Alchemy, that’s right.… Nonetheless, our audience is waiting.” He raised his voice: “The ring, please.”
“Um—”
Cass pretended to fumble for the ring like a best man at a wedding. “Oops! I think I dropped it!”

Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji raced down the hallway, past rooms full of props and costumes. Many of these items obviously had not been used in years and were displayed for tourists, but some of the rooms seemed to be bustling.
“Can I help you?” A uniformed attendant tried to stop them with a smile. “Would either of you like a drink?”
“No, thanks!” Yo-Yoji called out as they continued running. “Wait, what’s that?” asked Max-Ernest.
“What?” Yo-Yoji turned to see Max-Ernest standing frozen, his nose twitching. “I smell… chocolate.”
“So what? There’s no time—”
“Dark chocolate…” said Max-Ernest, his eyes glazed.
“Yo, dude—you just had all that hot fudge fifteen minutes ago. How can you even—?” “Wait, just a minute, I have to—”
Max-Ernest darted into the nearest door, the one with a star on it—and the freshly painted name LORD PHARAOH.
Yo-Yoji looked in after Max-Ernest. “There’s nothing in here!”

That was an exaggeration. Lord Pharaoh’s dressing room was large and luxurious, with a sitting area on one side; on the other side were a long counter and a mirror surrounded by vanity lights. A tall vase with an extravagant bouquet of flowers sat on an end table by a couch. (Had either Max-Ernest or Yo-Yoji bothered to look, they would have seen a card hanging from the flowers, signed Bon chance, Antoinette.) But it was true: the room looked remarkably empty.
“Dude, if you don’t come out this second, I swear—”
Max-Ernest didn’t appear to hear a word Yo-Yoji was saying. Like a hunting dog trying to catch a scent, he stood in the middle of the room with his nose in the air.
“Forget it. I’m just going to go rescue Cass by myself.” “No, no, wait,” said Max-Ernest.
Following his nose, Max-Ernest walked slowly toward the end of the counter. He looked positively bewitched.
“Here,” he said when he reached the back corner. He held up his hand, victorious. “What? There’s nothing in your hand.”
“Feel,” said Max-Ernest, walking out of the room. “It’s chocolate. Guess Lord Pharaoh thought he didn’t have to hide it ’cause it’s invisible. How ’bout that?”
Yo-Yoji reached for Max-Ernest’s hand. Sure enough, he felt a bar. Max-Ernest yanked it away.
“Not just any chocolate. I’ve only smelled this once before, but I’d recognize it anywhere,” said Max-Ernest, holding the invisible chocolate to his nose and inhaling greedily. “It’s Señor Hugo’s chocolate. Time Travel Chocolate. I knew Lord Pharaoh had mastered the formula! It was the only way he could have gotten here—”
With a crazed look in his eye, he moved his hand toward his mouth.
“Don’t!” Yo-Yoji grabbed Max-Ernest’s wrist. “You can’t. Plus, there’s no time to lose—”
Max-Ernest shuddered, coming to his senses. “Sorry. You’re right. I don’t know what happened. That would have been a disaster.”
“No sweat.”
“But you just gave me an idea. There is time to lose. Lord Pharaoh’s time. Five hundred years of it.”
“Say what?”
“I’ll explain on the way.” Max-Ernest started running down the hallway again.
Yo-Yoji followed close behind, keeping an eye on his friend’s hand. They had enough problems already, without Max-Ernest eating his way into another century.

As Cass pretended to look on the floor for the ring, she felt one hand grab her arm and another hand grab her necklace.
“Ow!” The chain bit into her neck. Cass could feel herself choking. She struggled, but it was no use.
“So sorry,” said Lord Pharaoh, not letting go. He tugged harder and harder, until the chain broke.
Cass clutched her throat, gasping for air. “I knew I didn’t like necklaces,” she said under her breath.
“Thank you,” said Lord Pharaoh. Holding the Ring of Thoth in his invisible fist, he let the chain drop to the floor. “Ladies and Gentlemen, can we have a hand for the young Cassandra.”

The applause track resumed. The Skelton Sisters clapped stiffly, like hosts of a game show. “You may take a seat now, Cassandra,” said Lord Pharaoh. Two gold-painted musclemen came up behind her and gripped her from both sides.
“No, thanks, I think I’ll stay,” said Cass. She still didn’t know how she was going to stop him, but she had to try.
“All the better! You shall see my victory up close,” said Lord Pharaoh. “Men—the jars!”
At his command, two of the gold musclemen wheeled in front of her a large platform on which sat four gold jars, each about four feet tall. Before Cass could protest, one of the men opened the lid of the first jar. The other man hoisted her in the air and dropped her in. They lowered the lid—which had a hole in the middle for her head—and closed it around her, locking the lid in place with clamps. Her head stuck out the top, and she wore a furious expression on her face.
“You recognize canopic jars, of course. For storing the organs of the dead. Later, I will perform for the audience a great trick—and spread your severed parts among the four jars. But for now, please enjoy the spectacle,” said Lord Pharaoh gallantly.
“Thanks,” said Cass through gritted teeth. She could hear Lord Pharaoh’s footsteps as he walked over to the mummy.
He’s wearing boots, she thought.
“And now the moment that everyone has been waiting for, but none more so than I.”
A spotlight illuminated the Ring of Thoth as his invisible hand held it over the mummy. The ring appeared to hover in the air.
Again Lord Pharaoh spoke in ancient Egyptian, and again he translated. “Mighty Thoth, for what—why—must you take the life of this man?”
Burning hieroglyphs appeared behind Lord Pharaoh. Two of them Cass recognized: they were the first two hieroglyphs of the Secret.
For what…? Lord Pharaoh’s question echoed in Cass’s ear.… For what?… Why?
She had thought the first two words of the Secret were because what, but what if a better translation was for what? That is to say, why. Why hadn’t she seen that before?
Suddenly, it struck her: all along, she’d simply assumed that the Secret was the answer to all of life’s mysteries, but the Secret wasn’t an answer at all. The Secret was a question.
Or was it just that to find the answer, one first had to ask the question?

Max-Ernest and Yo-Yoji ran as fast as they could, huffing and puffing, until the stage came into view—along with all the complex machinery and sets and props one finds behind a stage of this size. Yo-Yoji stopped, seeing Lord Pharaoh’s gold cape draped like a blanket over a chair. It would work for catching a bird, he thought. Why not a ghost?

Cass had had a breakthrough, but it had come too late. Suddenly, she felt overwhelmed by the hopelessness of her situation. Question or answer, it no longer mattered what the Secret was, because Lord Pharaoh was going to learn it first.
Where were her friends? she wondered in despair. Were they imprisoned in canopic jars, too? “With this ring, your ring, the Ring of Thoth, we take back this man’s life.” As Lord Pharaoh pronounced these words, the gold ring appeared to float through the air until it reached the tip of the mummy’s gold finger. “Live again, Doctor, live—” “Hey, Lord Pharaoh, remember me?”
Yo-Yoji came running out of the wings, holding Lord Pharaoh’s gold cape behind him. When he reached the center of the stage, he threw the cape into the air. It dropped only a foot before landing on what was clearly Lord Pharaoh’s head. Now the invisible magician was visible—albeit looking a bit like a badly costumed ghost on Halloween.
The audience applauded before the applause track could even roll. It was a great effect. “Aah!” Lord Pharaoh cried in surprise. They could hear him stumble.
“Kiyah!” Before Lord Pharaoh could remove the cape from his head, Yo-Yoji threw his shoulder into the unseen enemy, tackling him to the floor. From the way Yo-Yoji grimaced, he must have hit Lord Pharaoh rather hard. But Yo-Yoji recovered, pinning Lord Pharaoh to the stage while Max-Ernest ran up to them.
“Let go, you cretin!” Lord Pharaoh growled. “Not a chance,” said Yo-Yoji.
On the stage and off, guards and audience and dancers alike watched in confusion, unable to tell what was planned and what wasn’t.
But Lord Pharaoh refused to call for help. Instead he shouted, “All part of the show, Ladies and Gentlemen! Take a bow, young sirs.”
Max-Ernest quickly bowed, his mind racing. Clearly, Lord Pharaoh didn’t want to cause an alarm. But why? Max-Ernest wondered. Then he realized: the mummy was stolen property. Lord Pharaoh didn’t want security officers sniffing around the stage any more than Max-Ernest and his friends did. If the authorities were tipped off, they might confiscate the mummy before Lord Pharaoh had his way with it. Well, that was all to the good—Lord Pharaoh’s concern worked to the trio’s advantage.
Meanwhile, the wily ghost, still caught in the cape, was wriggling beneath Yo-Yoji on the floor. The invisible chocolate in his hand, Max-Ernest crouched down beside them. He pulled the cape off Lord Pharaoh’s head. Then he felt around for Lord Pharaoh’s face.
“Aaargh!” Lord Pharaoh grunted. “You two are going to pay.”
Wincing with distaste, Max-Ernest pried Lord Pharaoh’s mouth open with his fingers. He tried not to think about what Lord Pharaoh’s teeth must look like; dental hygiene was not very advanced in the sixteenth century.
“Help me keep his mouth open,” he said to Yo-Yoji. “Here—” Max-Ernest guided Yo-Yoji’s hand to Lord Pharaoh’s mouth.
“This is disgusting,” complained Yo-Yoji, keeping his hand in place despite Lord Pharaoh’s struggling.
“Eat,” said Max-Ernest, forcing the invisible chocolate into the mouth of the invisible alchemist. “Ouch!” Lord Pharaoh had bitten down hard on Max-Ernest’s finger. Instinctively, Max-Ernest pulled his hand away, but as far as he could tell, there was still some chocolate in Lord Pharaoh’s mouth. And it didn’t take much, he knew.
The Skelton Sisters were frantic. They shouted at the six gold musclemen standing onstage like statues.
“Do something!” “Hello—are you guys deaf?!” The dancers blinked, uncertain whether to move.
Still hunched over Lord Pharaoh, Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest could feel the alchemist’s body convulsing under the cape.

“I think… I think… it’s working,” said Max-Ernest.
First Lord Pharaoh’s legs, then his arms, seemed to melt into the stage. By the time one of the dancers broke ranks and ran toward him, it was too late. There was nothing left where Lord Pharaoh had been—only a satin cape lying flat on the floor.
The audience applauded madly.
“Nice work, bro,” said Yo-Yoji, breathing hard.
“Wha-what happened?” asked the dancer, sweat destroying his gold makeup. “He went home,” said Max-Ernest.
And it was true: Lord Pharaoh was now a problem for another age.
The Skelton Sisters screamed. “Antoinette!!” Then they ran off the stage.
Max-Ernest looked up to a box-style balcony on the side of the theater just in time to see a flash of blonde hair and a shimmering gown. How long had Ms. Mauvais been there? In a blink, she was gone.
For good, Max-Ernest hoped.

In the melee, the brawny dancers who had been watching over Cass rushed to the center of the stage, letting go of the jar that confined her. How to get out? She felt around, but the jar was locked from the outside. She had an idea, however. Although the jar was painted gold, she could tell by its texture that it was pottery. She wriggled around, rocking the jar until it fell to the floor with a crash. Ow! The pottery sides broke, just as she’d hoped they would, leaving her a bit banged up but free.
Cass scanned the area around where Lord Pharaoh had been. At first, she didn’t see what she was looking for. Then—there it was, right at the foot of the mummy.
She darted across the stage and lunged for the ring.
The monocle was lying nearby. For good measure, she pocketed it, too.
“Cass!” her friends called out to her, but Cass didn’t hear them. She was already standing in front of the mummy.

The ring fit perfectly on the mummy’s golden finger.
As Cass slipped it over the knuckle, the ring seemed to lock in place, sending sparks flying in all directions. She saw a flash of lightning bright enough to illuminate the entire auditorium, but—strangely—most of the room stayed dark. The noise of the theater receded. The lights around her blurred. She felt as if she were in a tunnel. A tunnel with only two people in it. The mummy and herself. Facing each other.
And then, for a moment, she was in the sky. Flying. Over a great river. The Nile. The ibis, she thought.
Then she was in the tunnel with the mummy again. The mummy’s eyes blinked open. His dark, three-thousand-year-old eyes. They looked directly at Cassandra.
Death was staring her in the face. Suddenly, Cass was afraid. Deeply afraid.
What had she done? She’d put the ring on the mummy’s finger almost by instinct, without thinking. Why? Because Dr. L had told her she would learn the Secret? What if that was just another trap? The final trap?

Yes, she thought feverishly, that was what everything had been leading toward—the sacrifice of Cassandra. The mummy was going to kill her. He was going to turn her into one of his own. And not only her. You cannot bring death to life without bringing death into life. He was a demon whom she had unleashed on the world.
She gave herself a little shake and forced herself to breathe. She had come too far—much too far—not to try to learn the Secret.
Because what ibis/Thoth river/Nile walk… Why ibis river walk… why ibis walk Nile… why ibis cross river…
Cass looked the mummy in the eye and carefully pronounced the words she’d been trying for so long to form in her mind. The words fell into place as she spoke them, as if they’d been there
—somewhere—all along.
“Why did the ibis cross the Nile?”
The mummy stared at her, his ancient eyes seeming to penetrate her very being. For a second, she thought she’d asked the wrong question. Or that he had not regained the power of speech. Or that he was simply unwilling to answer.
He opened his mouth. Inside was only darkness.
Cass felt sick with despair. Why had she assumed this creature from ancient Egypt would understand her, or she him? Why had she assumed he could speak at all?
Then, in a voice so deep it seemed to come not from the mouth of a man, or even a mummy, but from the mouth of a volcano, a voice that would rattle buildings, shake mountains, the mummy repeated her question: “Why did the ibis cross the Nile?”
She nodded, shivering.
He laughed, a deep, rumbling laugh. “To get to the other side, of course.”
As Cass stared, frozen with fear, the laughter grew louder and louder, until it shook his entire body. Then, with a final shudder, he closed his eyes. The Ring of Thoth rattled on his finger and fell to the floor. Once again, the mummy was nothing but a pile of ragged cloth and dusty bones.
And for the first time in her still-young life, Cass fainted.

CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO
SHOWTIME
  
A joke?” Cass murmured. “It was all a joke?”
Yo-Yoji and Max-Ernest were crouched over their friend, just as they had been crouched over their enemy only a moment earlier.
They breathed matching sighs of relief. She was going to be fine. “What’s a joke?” asked Max-Ernest.
“What? Oh. Nothing,” said Cass, forcing herself awake. “I guess I was dreaming. Are we still on the stage?”
“Yep, you were only out for a second,” said Yo-Yoji, helping her to her feet.
No longer worried about Cass, Max-Ernest glanced around the stage. The Skelton Sisters were gone, as were all Midnight Sun members, as far as he could tell. The gold-painted dancers stared at them, picking at the gems glued inside their belly buttons, not sure what to do. Audience members spoke to one another in nervous whispers, uncertain whether the spectacle had been planned or not. Even the guards in the aisles seemed confused. But it would only be a matter of seconds before the guards—and everybody else—wised up.
The friends needed time to get away, thought Max-Ernest. But what to do?
Max-Ernest heard a clinking sound and looked down. One of Cass’s two remaining gold coins—it must have fallen out of her pocket. He picked it up off the floor.
Suddenly, he had an inspiration. This was a magic show, wasn’t it? And what did people always say—the show must go on?
“You guys get out of here,” he whispered to Cass and Yo-Yoji. “I’ll distract everyone. Meet you outside in a minute.”
Shakily, Max-Ernest got to his feet—and found himself alone in the middle of the biggest stage that he’d ever seen, let alone set foot on.
“Hi, er, Ladies and Gentlemen. It is I… the real Lord Pharaoh,” Max-Ernest shouted, trying to match Lord Pharaoh’s Old World accent. The effect was not entirely authentic; he sounded like a small child speaking into a Darth Vader–style voice-changing microphone.
He stepped to the front of the stage. From this vantage point, the room looked huge and dark. He hadn’t realized quite how many people were there. And they were all watching him! “Think of me as that little man standing behind Lord Pharaoh’s curtain—you know, like in The Wizard of Oz?”
If he was expecting a warm reception, he didn’t get it. The audience jeered: “Yeah, right!” “Very funny, kid, sit down!” “Somebody call his parents, please!” “Don’t believe me? I’ll prove it to you.” He held the gold coin above his head.
Max-Ernest’s image appeared on the big screen behind him. The cameraman, wherever he was, had decided to play along.
“I am Lord Pharaoh, the greatest alchemist of all time!” Max-Ernest tried to keep his voice steady. “I have in my hand a gold coin. Watch, and I shall make it disappear—”
This should be easy, Max-Ernest thought. He was going to do a simple sleight-of-hand trick that all magicians know, one that Pietro had shown him numerous times. But his hand was shaking with nervousness. And when he tried to slip the coin between his fingers——it dropped onto the stage.

The audience was predictably merciless:
“Boo!” “Go home!” “You said you’d make it disappear, not drop it!”
As he picked up the coin, he felt about as low as he possibly could. Where was the applause track when you really needed it? At that very second, he wanted to jump off the stage and run from the theater, but he told himself he had to stay where he was. He stole a look at the golden dancers, restless at the side of the stage. Most likely, Cass and Yo-Yoji wouldn’t have been able to make it all the way out of the hotel yet. He had to buy them just a little more time.
When he stood up, he did his best to smile like a boy who knew exactly what he was doing. “Of course I didn’t make it disappear!” he said gamely. “Would you want to make a gold coin disappear? No, you’d want to keep it!”
There were a few laughs and a few jeers. Mostly jeers. But one person shouted, “Oh, give the kid a chance—he’s kinda funny!”
That gave Max-Ernest an idea: if he couldn’t do magic, he would try to make the audience laugh—at him or with him, either would have to do.
“OK, I know I’m not the only magician around here. So who knows this one? How many magicians does it take to change a lightbulb?”
He waited just long enough for the question to sink in before answering it: “Well, that depends on what you want the lightbulb to change into!”
I’ll admit there were more than a few groans, but I also submit that there were a few laughs. So it wasn’t the greatest joke in the world. Or the newest. What lightbulb joke is? For Max-Ernest, at the time, it represented progress. He didn’t even try to explain the joke after he told it.
And then Max-Ernest had a little moment of comic inspiration; he made up a joke on the spot, as opposed to merely repeating one he’d read. “But the real question is, how many lightbulbs does it take to change a magician?” he said.
After a beat, he answered, “I’m not sure exactly, but tonight a lightbulb went off in my head, and I realized I’m not much of magician anyway. So I changed into a comedian.”
This time he got a real laugh. And he learned an important lesson: when in doubt, make fun of yourself. Self-deprecating humor is the surest kind.
“And just now another lightbulb went off in my head.” He paused. “I bet you thought I was going to say I’m not a comedian, either, huh? But actually, all I meant was that it’s time for me to go.”
It had been about three minutes—enough time, he hoped, for Cass and Yo-Yoji to get out of the hotel.
Max-Ernest smiled and bowed. “And now, if you’ll excuse me—”
While the audience watched in confusion, he leaped off the stage, ran up the aisle, and exited the theater.
Which really is the most legitimate sort of disappearing trick, don’t you agree?

CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE
The Priests of Amun 
conn star luck nugget

They hadn’t agreed on a meeting place. How often had it been drilled into their heads? By parents and Terces Society leaders alike. Make sure you decide on a meeting place. And yet they hadn’t done so.
When he got out of the hotel, he looked around, vaguely hoping he would see his friends, but he feared they were long gone by now—either on the way to a bus station or in the hands of the Midnight Sun.
As he stood hesitating, wondering whether he should stay or go, he gradually realized that the eye of the Egyptian-style “living statue” nearest to him kept twitching—seemingly winking at Max-Ernest. Seeing Max-Ernest glance at him, the statue started shaking his head ever so slightly.
Max-Ernest looked at him questioningly. Was he trying to tell Max-Ernest something?
The statue kept shaking his head, but it must have been obvious that Max-Ernest had no clue what he was trying to communicate. Finally, he beckoned Max-Ernest closer with a slight movement of his index finger.
Max-Ernest walked over nervously. Was he finally going to hear from the Midnight Sun? The man wasn’t wearing gloves, but his hands weren’t bare, either—they were covered in makeup. Perhaps that was enough.
“Somebody across the street’s been waving to you for the last three minutes, you blind idiot!” he said through gritted teeth, then quickly refroze in his statue pose.
“Oh. Thanks.”
Max-Ernest looked across the street, expecting to see Cass or Yo-Yoji. Instead, he was greeted by a very peculiar sight: the Priests of Amun, no longer carrying their signs, now sitting on motorcycles. They wore colorful motorcycle helmets over their turbans, and black motorcycle boots under their robes.
Two of the priests now had passengers riding behind them, also wearing helmets. Max-Ernest recognized Cass and Yo-Yoji by their clothes. His heart skipped a beat. His friends had been kidnapped! Well, it was only a matter of time. He knew they’d all gotten away too easily.
The third biker-priest motioned impatiently for him to join them.
Quickly, Max-Ernest examined his options. If he made a run for it—and managed to escape—he could try to contact Pietro and get help. But he wouldn’t know where the priests had taken his friends—or where to go to rescue them. Besides, what were the chances he could outrun three men on motorcycles? If he went with them willingly, however, he and his friends might find a better moment to escape later that night. And the three of them working together would improve the odds of success.
He ran across the street.
“Get on, sahib!” said the priest gruffly from under his helmet. His Arabic accent was thick. “No, let my friends go!” said Max-Ernest. He knew he sounded foolish, but he figured it couldn’t hurt to put up a little bit of a fight.
“Sorry—they’re coming. You can stay or go.” The priest gunned the bike’s motor as if he were about to leave.
“Who are you?” asked Max-Ernest, stalling. “The Priests of Amun—is that, like, some secret cult descended from ancient Egypt?”

The biker coughed under the helmet. “You could say that.”
Max-Ernest gagged. So it was true—they were an ancient order of vengeful Egyptians. Who knew what kind of strange ritual tortures they planned!
“We didn’t do it! We didn’t touch the mummy,” said Max-Ernest in a rush. “It was Lord Pharaoh!”
“We know.”
“You do?” Max-Ernest looked at him in surprise. “You’re not really the Priests of Amun, are you?”
The man shook his head.
“I knew there was something off about you guys. Now that I think of it, Amun isn’t even the mummy’s real name! It’s just a pseudonym the museum gave him. So how could there be Priests of Amun?”
“You got me.”
Max-Ernest eyed the bikers’ motorcycle gloves, an awful realization overtaking him. “You’re the Midnight Sun!”
The biker laughed. “No, that we’re not, but I’m sure they’ll be here any second, if you want to wait.”
A passenger on one of the other bikes lifted his helmet: it was Yo-Yoji. “Just get on, dude!” he shouted.
The other passenger lifted her helmet: Cass. “They’re taking us home, silly!”
“They are?” Astonished, Max-Ernest looked from his friends to the priest in front of him. “You are? Are you sure you didn’t threaten them to make them say that?”
“If I wanted to kidnap you, you’d already be kidnapped,” said the priest, lifting his visor and losing his accent at the same time. “Now get on the bike already—”
“Owen?!”
“Yes, doofus.”
Max-Ernest reddened. “Don’t call me that,” he said, climbing onto the seat behind Owen. He couldn’t believe he had thought Owen was an ancient Egyptian priest—he knew he was never going to live it down.
“Is that your way of saying ‘thanks for rescuing me’?” asked Owen, chuckling. “No, it’s my way of saying ‘where were you when we needed you in the theater’?” “Playing blackjack—what do you think? I knew you guys could handle it.”
Max-Ernest slipped, then pulled himself back onto the bike, trying not to think about the trip ahead. (I probably don’t have to tell you that this was his first time on a motorcycle.) He hoped Owen’s motorcycle riding was smoother than his car driving, but he had a sneaking suspicion that it wasn’t.
In front of them, the other two bikes were already pulling out into traffic. “Who’s driving those ones?” asked Max-Ernest.
“Mickey and Morrie.”
“The clowns!? No wonder you were playing blackjack. I’m surprised you ever got them out of the casino.”
“Here, wear this—” Owen handed Max-Ernest a helmet like the ones the others were wearing.
“Cass’s mom is going to kill her,” said Max-Ernest, putting on the helmet. “She hates motorcycles. She works in the insurance industry, so she knows all about accident statistics.”

Owen chuckled. “Hold on!”
“Wait!”
“What?”
“Somebody’s got to call Albert 3-D and tell him the mummy’s waiting for him onstage.” “Already done. He’s on the way.” Owen revved his engine, and suddenly Max-Ernest’s head whipped backward.
Just as Max-Ernest was about to sail off the back of the bike, he reached around Owen’s waist and gripped his priestly robe. Max-Ernest’s palms were sweaty. He could feel the wind rushing by. They were off.
And he was terrified.
To calm his mind, he started counting down in his head. But that only made him think of rocket ships taking off—and the high likelihood of launch explosions. He tried to imagine a peaceful forest scene instead, but in a flash, his forest was consumed by fire—a fire sparked, of course, by a motorcycle accident on a mountain highway.
And yet, he reminded himself, as long as he was afraid, he was still alive. But then why was it so dark? It took him a few seconds to realize that his eyes were closed. Tentatively, he opened them—
The brilliant lights of the Vegas Strip passed by in a dizzying blur—as if they had entered warp speed and were shooting through entire galaxies in a matter of seconds.
A moment later, they were flying through the cold, dark desert. This is what it must feel like to be abducted by aliens, he thought. Terrifying, yes. But grand.
He wouldn’t have traded it for the world.

CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR
CHICKEN

What a difference a day and a returned mummy make.
The trio’s reception at home wasn’t at all what they’d expected. Rather than being “grounded for life,” as they’d predicted, Yo-Yoji and Cass and Max-Ernest were greeted like returning war heroes.
It seemed everybody (meaning mostly their parents) accepted their story about being kidnapped at gunpoint by that villainous magician known as Lord Pharaoh. If he was capable of stealing a mummy, all agreed, why wouldn’t he wrap three kids in linen bandages, throw them into a sarcophagus, and ship them to Las Vegas with only cat food to sustain them? (You will notice that our creative young runaways threw a few reality-based elements into this rather heavily embroidered story.) As for his current whereabouts, Lord Pharaoh was believed to have fled north to Canada under the protection of a ruthless gang of bikers with ties to the Egyptian mafia. The erstwhile Vegas entertainer was now the subject of a nationwide police manhunt.
Most surprising of all was the greeting they received at school. When they arrived Friday morning, after having missed two days of school, a smiling Mrs. Johnson stood in front of the school gates under a giant banner painted to look like a movie poster.

RETURN OF THE MUMMY:
The Defeat of Lord Pharaoh
Starring
Cass, Max-Ernest, and Yo-Yoji

As was clear from the paint all over his clothes, if not from the grin on his face, Daniel-not-Danielle had created the banner. And not a bad job, he had done, too. (Perhaps in the future, comic-book illustration would be his thing.) Even Glob gave them a thumbs-up.
With cameras flashing, Mrs. Johnson welcomed them back, telling them they were heroes and a credit to their “institution of higher, er, middle school learning.”
Now, a skeptic might say that it was the presence of journalists that had turned Mrs. Johnson into such a warm and sunny principal. (Like most people in her profession, Mrs. Johnson was very sensitive to the way her school was portrayed in the media.) However, in her defense, after the cameras had left and there were no longer any witnesses, Mrs. Johnson did not suddenly turn back into her old sourpuss self.
On the contrary, she told her surprised students that she had a special, private congratulatory present for the three of them to share.
“It hasn’t felt right since you returned it. I just don’t think it belongs to me anymore,” said Mrs. Johnson, taking a familiar Aztec artifact out of her purse. “Who would like to be responsible for this?”
The boys looked at Cass, and Mrs. Johnson handed her the Tuning Fork.

As official mummy-rescuing heroes, Cass and Max-Ernest were allowed to go where they wished on a Saturday afternoon without having to employ the least bit of subterfuge. They merely told their parents that they were getting together for a walk.
True, Cass’s mother did volunteer something about not wanting her daughter to be kidnapped again, but Cass pointed out that if she could escape from a mad magician, she could escape from anyone. Besides, she couldn’t live her whole life in fear of being nabbed and taken (or, rather, shut up in a box and mailed) to Las Vegas, could she? And true, Max-Ernest, who was once again the apple of his parents’ very separate eyes, had to promise both his mother and father individually that he would spend the next Saturday afternoon with them, but he managed to get out of the house without even his baby brother crawling after him.
The walk was not quite as cheery as it sounds, however. Cass, at least, remained rather sullen most of the way to the circus. Occasionally, her ears would flare red, and it looked as though she might be about to say something, but Max-Ernest hardly noticed. As was often the case, he was speaking enough for the two of them:
“… or what about starting with a joke that goes like this: ‘Sorry, I was going to bring my graduation speech today, really, I swear, but my dog ate it this morning.…’ Get it? It’s a joke on the classic line ‘the dog ate my homework,’ or ‘the cat ate my homework,’ or whatever, only it’s the dog ate my graduation speech—”
“Huh?” Cass was paying little attention—so little, in fact, that she accidentally put a questioning inflection at the end of her “huh,” which made Max-Ernest explain himself (rather than continuing to babble on without bothering her too much with what he was saying, as she would have preferred).
“Do you like the joke? It’s my favorite kind, the joke on the joke. I made it up from scratch. I didn’t even read it in a book. I’m writing all my own material now. All the best comics do. Although even the best guys sometimes buy jokes. Did you know you can sell jokes to comedians for fifty dollars each? How ’bout that?”
Who knew that a single turn on a Vegas stage could do so much for one fledgling comedian’s confidence. And yet there was no doubt that Max-Ernest had a new humorous spring in his step, a comic twinkle in his eye, that he’d never had before. He didn’t just look funny; the possibility existed, for the very first time, that he might be funny.
Cass, however, was immune to the charms of the new Max-Ernest. She looked at him darkly. “Don’t talk to me about jokes.”
“But the speech is due tomorrow! If I don’t figure out the joke now, when will I?” Cass’s ears glowed red. “Don’t. Talk. About. Jokes.”
“Uh, OK,” said Max-Ernest, taken aback by the fierceness of her tone. “I hate jokes!”
“OK. We won’t talk about them.” “Good.” She walked ahead.
“You didn’t used to hate them,” said Max-Ernest nervously, following behind her. “I mean, you didn’t like my jokes. But that was because you didn’t think they were funny or because I didn’t tell them right. Not because you hated jokes in general—”
“That was before.” “Before what?”
Cass gave him a look.
“You mean with the mummy?” Cass didn’t say anything.
“That means yes.” Max-Ernest was not always very astute about nonverbal clues, but in this case Cass’s meaning was clear.
Earlier that day, Max-Ernest had tried to press Cass for details about what transpired onstage between her and the mummy, but she wouldn’t tell him anything. He knew she had tried to put the ring on the mummy—he’d seen that much. But he didn’t know whether she had learned the Secret. It was quite strange, really; his memory of the moment was a total blur. All he knew for certain was that Cass had been in a terrible mood ever since then.
“What does the mummy have to do with jokes?” he asked. “It’s not the mummy himself; it’s what he said.”
Max-Ernest stared at his friend in surprise. “He spoke to you?” She nodded.
“In English?”
“Uh-huh. Well, I think so.”
“Wouldn’t he speak Egyptian? If he were going to speak. English wasn’t even invented when he was alive.”
She hesitated. She hadn’t necessarily meant to talk to Max-Ernest about this. But now that she was talking to him, she had to admit it was a big relief.
“It was kind of like a dream,” she said. “I mean, I don’t know if the mummy was really talking or if it was more like telepathy. Or maybe he was talking in Egyptian and somehow what he said got magically translated in my brain—?”
Max-Ernest looked dubious. “On a purely statistical basis, all those things are pretty unlikely.”
“Well, something happened. I heard him talk to me.”
“OK, let’s say—hypothetically—that you heard him talk to you,” said Max-Ernest, humoring her. “What does that have to do with jokes?”
“Well, I guess you could say he told one.”
“The mummy told you a joke?” Max-Ernest was incredulous. She nodded.
“So he didn’t tell you the you-know-what?” “No, well, yes, I mean, that’s what it was—”
Max-Ernest blinked in astonishment. This was a possibility—one of the few—that he had never contemplated. “The you-know-what is a joke?”
Cass nodded unhappily.
“A joke joke or a joke as in, that’s so dumb, it’s a joke.” “A joke joke.”
“A joke joke?”
Cass nodded. “A joke you know.”
Max-Ernest, the joke lover, was appalled. “The you-know-what, the thing that nobody is supposed to know, the thing that we’ve done all those things for, the thing that you went back in time to find out—you’re saying that thing is a joke I already know?”
Cass nodded.
“Now you’re joking, right?” “I wish I were,” said Cass. “So what was the joke?” “You know I can’t tell you.”
“But you said I knew the joke already!” Max-Ernest protested. “Just give me a hint, at least.”

Cass looked at him. What’s the difference? she thought glumly. “Think chicken.” “Chicken, as in scared?”
“A chicken chicken.” “A scared chicken?” “No. Just a chicken!”
Max-Ernest looked nonplussed. “A joke about a chicken. The you-know-what is a joke about a chicken.”
“Uh-huh.”
“A story joke or a riddle?” “Riddle.”
Max-Ernest thought for a second, trying to absorb this new and thoroughly distressing piece of information. Then his eyes widened. “Is it a famous riddle?”
Cass nodded.
“Like, really famous?” Cass nodded.
Max-Ernest shook his head. “Really? That is the… you-know-what?” Cass nodded. “Yeah. That’s it. Only substitute ibis for chicken.”
“I can’t believe it! I thought… well, I thought a lot of things. But nothing like that. It doesn’t make any sense!”
“I know. I couldn’t believe it, either.” “Well, so what’s the answer?”
“What do you mean?”
“What’s the answer? Which is it?”
“Which is what?” asked Cass, totally confused. “Which came first—the ibis or the egg?”
Cass put her head in her hands. “Not that chicken joke!”
There was no time for her to clear up the matter, however; they had reached Pietro’s trailer.
Cass could see Yo-Yoji’s bicycle parked next to one of the tents nearby. Inside, she could hear Lily Wei shouting instructions. “Kiyah!” Yo-Yoji responded. He was practicing martial arts. It seemed almost sad, Cass thought, to hear the two of them working at it all so seriously, now that she knew the Secret was nothing more than, well, what it was.
For the hundredth time, Cass tried not to think about it. If the Secret was a joke, did that mean the whole Terces Society was? Pietro and everyone? The Jester? The homunculus?
Was she a joke, too?

CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE
The OTHER SIDE

Pietro’s trailer was small and simply furnished, with a cot-size bed, a card table, and a sink and mini-refrigerator for a kitchen.
The only personal touch was an old, banged-up bureau—painted with dragons and other chinoiserie*—that looked as though it had traveled the world, as indeed it had. On top sat Pietro’s top hat, which was looking a bit past its prime; the hat tilted to the side as if engaged in conversation with an invisible partner.  
Pietro was sitting at the card table when they entered. His eyes were red, and his hair and mustache were even more bedraggled than usual. It looked as though he hadn’t slept. On the table in front of him were an old circus ticket, a playbill advertising the Bergamo Brothers, and the mandolin-rose vial that Dr. L had given him—the last remaining scent instrument from the Symphony of Smells.
He smiled at the sight of the young Terces members. “Ah, Cassandra, Max-Ernest, I forgot you were coming,” he said, standing. “I should make some espresso?”
“That’s OK,” said Max-Ernest. “We don’t really drink espresso.” “Oh, right—I forget. You are still so young.”
“But if there’s more hot chocolate—”
Cass cut him off. “You can have hot chocolate later.”
All business, Cass pushed aside the circus ticket and the playbill. Then she opened her backpack and laid three objects on the table in front of Pietro: the Tuning Fork, the Double Monocle, and the Ring of Thoth.
Pietro raised a bushy eyebrow. “Aha. Well done. Mr. Wallace, he will be very happy. He will put these things in the archive along with the Sound Prism and the last vial of the Symphony of Smells. There they can do no more mischief, I hope.” His eyes twinkled briefly. “Unless you steal them back again.”
“Taste. Sight. Touch. Hearing. Smell.” Max-Ernest folded his arms. “One object for every sense.”
Pietro smiled at him. “Very astute.”
There was an awkward silence. They were all standing; Pietro had not asked his guests to sit down.
He looked at them with heavy eyes. “Is there anything else?”
“Uh—” Max-Ernest didn’t know what to say. The question was so unlike Pietro. Usually, Pietro was almost as chatty as Max-Ernest was, but it seemed very much that he was trying to end the visit.
“Yeah, there is,” said Cass stiffly. “I have to ask you something, and I want you to tell me the truth.”
“I always tell the truth, when I can.”
“When you made us swear the Oath of Terces, when you told me I was the Secret Keeper and finding out the Secret was the most important thing in the world, when we were fighting the Midnight Sun all that time…” She broke off, trembling. It was almost too hard to say.
“Yes?”
“Did you know the you-know-what—?” She stopped herself; what was the use of hiding the name anymore? “Did you know the Secret was a joke?” she spit out.

“I’m sorry—I don’t understand,” said Pietro.
“Well, I don’t understand, either!” declared Cass. Angrily, she started describing her experience with the mummy.
Pietro raised his hand just before she could tell him what the mummy said. “Please, do not repeat his words. You know the Secret has power.”
“Why? It’s just a joke. It doesn’t mean anything.” “You are so sure?”
Cass laughed derisively. “So you still think it’s serious? You wouldn’t if you knew it.”
The old magician shrugged. “Maybe. Or maybe those things—the joke and the serious—they are not always so different as you might think.”
Max-Ernest looked confused. “That doesn’t make sense. Something serious and a joke, they’re opposites.” In all his studies of jokes, this was one conclusion he considered incontrovertible. As far as he was concerned, his problem in the past was that he had taken jokes far too seriously.
“Think about it—if the Secret is a joke, it is not only a joke,” said Pietro. “Or put it another way: if the biggest secret in the world is a joke, jokes must be a lot more important than you thought.”
“I still don’t understand,” said Cass.
“I know, Cassandra, and I am sorry. But can we please to continue this conversation another time. It is very important, yes, but…” He trailed off. There were tears in his eyes.
“What is it? What’s wrong?” As mad as Cass was, it made her uneasy to see the old magician cry. It took the self-righteous umph out of her anger.
“It is my brother.”
“Dr. L? What did he do now?” asked Max-Ernest. “Is he mad because we got out of his trap?”
“He has done nothing. He has died.” “Oh,” said Max-Ernest.
He and Cass were silent. As you know, fatal illnesses and disasters were their respective specialties. But death itself left them speechless.
“After you two saw him, my brother, he stopped taking those evil elixirs,” explained Pietro. “I think he wanted to prove to me he was true—he was done with the Midnight Sun. He came for a last visit and looked very old, very old. He could hardly to speak. And then this morning—he is no more.” His eyes filled again with tears. “I only wish that I had gotten to tell him I knew he had changed, I knew he was sorry. I hate to think that he left me, not knowing that I believed him. That I forgave him.”
“I guess you still loved him a lot,” Cass ventured.
Pietro nodded and opened the door for them. The visit was over.
“Do not worry too much for me. I will see him again soon, I am sure,” said Pietro, ushering them out.
Cass stopped short. She looked stricken. “You’re not… dying, too?” “Oh no,” he said reassuringly. “I meant on l’altro lato.”
“Where’s that?” asked Max-Ernest. “Is that in Italy?”
Pietro smiled through his tears. “It’s everywhere. And nowhere. It’s the place you cannot touch. L’altro lato. The other side.”
He closed the door with a tad more force than perhaps he intended.

Cass and Max-Ernest stood outside the trailer, their brains churning.
“The other side…” Max-Ernest repeated, turning to Cass. “The other side. That’s the answer, isn’t it? I mean, that’s the Secret, er, the riddle, I mean, that’s the chicken joke! Not ‘Which came first, the chicken or the egg?’ It’s ‘Why did the chicken cross the road? To get to the other side.’ How could I not have thought of that?”
But Cass didn’t answer. She was lost in her own thoughts, Pietro’s words still reverberating in her head as well.
The other side… the other side…
Perhaps Pietro was right, and the mummy wasn’t telling a joke, she thought. Or not only a joke.
“What if the joke’s not the whole Secret,” said Cass in a rush. “What if the Secret is the other side. Or how to get to the other side. Or maybe even something on the other side.”
“What are you saying? I just figured out the joke, and now you’re saying that it’s not the Secret after all!” Max-Ernest couldn’t help being a little irritated.
“No, it is, yeah, but also it isn’t,” said Cass. “Think about it—all this time, we’ve been looking for the Secret, we’ve seen so many things. I mean, the homunculus, where did he come from? Señor Hugo’s chocolate, where did that take me? There’s been some secret place… or dimension or something… all along.”
“The other side?” Max-Ernest tried to understand what she was saying.
“I’ve got to tell him I know what he means. I was all mad about something I had no reason to be mad about.”
She knocked on the trailer door. “Pietro?” There was no answer.
“Pietro, please. I want to apologize.”
There was still no answer. Cass and Max-Ernest looked at each other. “Pietro, are you OK?”
Worried, Cass opened the door and cautiously stepped inside. She took in the room at a glance. Pietro was nowhere to be seen.
Max-Ernest looked in after her. “Where’d he go?”
Everything in the trailer was just as they’d left it—except Pietro’s top hat. It was now lying in the middle of the linoleum floor, as though it had been carelessly tossed and forgotten. Max-Ernest picked it up and put it on his head. It fit perfectly (and he still has it to this day).
They looked around. There was almost nowhere to hide except under the bed; and there was nothing there but balls of dust.
“This is really weird. There’s no way he could have come out without us seeing him.”
“He’s a magician,” said Max-Ernest, peeking behind and beneath Pietro’s old chinoiserie bureau. “I’m sure there are all kinds of hidden doors and hatches in this place—in the floor, in the ceiling.” He opened drawers; they were full of scarves, balls, dice, coins. “Pietro is expert at all that stuff.”
“You think?” Cass wasn’t convinced.
Max-Ernest nodded, waving one of Pietro’s wands. “He probably just snuck out the bottom of the trailer and then… presto!… he ran off without us seeing him. How ’bout that?”
“Then why don’t we see the opening now?”

“A magician never reveals his tricks.”
“Why trick us at all? He could have just waited for us to leave.” “Um…” Max-Ernest didn’t have a good answer.
“Look,” said Cass, picking up the Ring of Thoth off the floor. “It must have been hidden under the top hat.”
As she turned the ring over in her hand, she felt a familiar buzz. What was it about the touch of this ring that was so powerful? Perhaps, on some level, the ring was a gag, as Max-Ernest had once suggested. But it was also something more. It had brought a mummy to life. What might it have done to Pietro?
“I know what you’re thinking,” said Max-Ernest, seeing the expression on her face. “You’re thinking he put the hat on and then the ring and he just—”
“Went poof? Yes.”
Max-Ernest shook his head. “Remember the last time he disappeared—when we first met?” They’d thought he went up in a puff of smoke in his kitchen, but it was a trick.
Cass disagreed. This time, she thought, Pietro had truly disappeared. He had gone somewhere else. L’altro lato. The other side.
And she was confident that if she needed to, she could find him there.
But she didn’t say anything to Max-Ernest. He didn’t need to believe it if he didn’t want to.
The other side was her secret—the Secret.
She was the Secret Keeper.

CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX
ON THE ROAD

One month later

“Grandpa Larry! Grandpa Wayne!”
Cass ran into her grandfathers’ arms, her graduation cap falling off her head. “I didn’t know you were back.”
“Surprise!” Grandpa Larry grinned. “We wouldn’t miss this for the world.”
“We got in this morning,” said Grandpa Wayne. “We didn’t even have time to shower.” Cass wrinkled her nose. “I can tell.” They all laughed.
“Actually, we didn’t get very far—our money ran out,” admitted Grandpa Larry cheerfully. “Really? After everything you sold at the garage sale?” asked Cass, incredulous.
“Turns out we’re not very good businessmen.”
“Well, I could have told you that!” said Cass, who was wondering how many gold coins it would take to buy them a lifetime supply of cruise tickets.
Grandpa Wayne looked at Cass. “What’s different about you? You look taller… more free.
…”
Grandpa Larry snapped his fingers. “She’s not wearing her backpack!”
Cass shrugged sheepishly. “Well, I figured graduation was bound to be such a total disaster that nothing in my backpack would help.”
As Larry and Wayne regaled her with stories—no doubt much exaggerated—about their adventures at sea, Cass’s eyes wandered around the soccer field, where the rest of her classmates were greeting their friends and relatives.
Everybody was very dressed up—as if it weren’t enough to graduate from middle school, they had to skip all the way to adulthood. It gave Cass a funny feeling, like she was looking off a precipice.
Yo-Yoji, who was sparring with his little brother while talking to his parents and sister, was wearing a dark, skinny suit that made him look like a mod British rocker from another era. Max-Ernest, who was looking back and forth between his parents like a referee at a tennis match, had tried to smooth his spiky hair with some kind of gel; it kept popping up—and he kept patting it down.
As for Cass, she wasn’t in a dress—much to her mother’s chagrin. She had consented to a skirt, however; and she had gotten a second manicure, this time deep green—“as a statement,” she said. But privately she admitted to herself that she rather liked the way it looked.
Amber, of course, looked the most polished; for her, dressing up was effortless. But she seemed oddly quiet. Rather than chatting and gossiping with Naomi and Veronica, as she normally would, she was standing by her parents’ side, her mind evidently elsewhere.
Cass was considering Amber’s unusual behavior, when she finally saw the person she was seeking. “Excuse me,” she said to her grandfathers. “There’s somebody I have to talk to.”
Promising to spend more time with them after the ceremony, Cass ran across the field, glad she had refused her mother’s suggestion of high heels.
She found her mother standing under the MUMMY RETURNS banner (now a bit tattered) with Albert 3-D and Daniel-not-Danielle.
Daniel-not-Danielle’s dreads were tied back, exposing the whole of his face for the first time.
For a second, Cass couldn’t tell him apart from his father.

“Hey, Albert 3-D, I mean, Albert, I mean, Professor,” said Cass, breathless. The professor laughed. “Albert 3-D is fine. I can’t seem to shake it.”
“Even I call him that sometimes,” said Daniel-not-Danielle.
“Well, anyway, I just wanted say, well, I never said I was sorry. I know I caused you a lot of trouble. I should never have touched the mummy, and then—”
Albert 3-D stopped her. “It’s OK, Cass, I know you’re sorry. And I’m grateful to you for finding the mummy. And for, well, a lot of things.” He smiled at Cass’s mom.
“Albert’s a forgiving man—a very nice quality,” said Cass’s mother, smiling. “I’ll bet sometimes you wish your mother were more like that—don’t you, sweetie?”
As her mother spoke, Cass noticed that her mother’s hand was grazing Albert 3-D’s—for much longer than one would normally touch a fellow parent at school. In fact, if Cass didn’t know better, she might have almost thought the touching was intentional. Yes, it must be—their pinkies were interlocked!
For a second, Cass locked eyes with the equally alarmed Daniel-not-Danielle. Was it possible their parents were having a romance? The idea was too icky to contemplate.
“Bye!” said Cass hurriedly. “It’s almost time—we gotta get our seats.”
On the other hand, she thought, as she and Daniel-not-Danielle scurried away, if her mother had to be involved with someone, there were worse choices than a Nigerian archaeologist. At least with him around, there was a chance they would get to travel.…

“And now I am proud to present the winner of this year’s Book-a-Day Reading Challenge, our very own Bookworm…”
Mrs. Johnson, resplendent in an apple-green hat and pantsuit, gestured to the still-short (but growing!) boy sitting in the front row next to Cass and Yo-Yoji.
“… Max-Ernest!”
Grinning from ear to ear, Max-Ernest stepped up to the podium and shook Mrs. Johnson’s hand. Then he laid his speech down, looked at the microphone, and took a breath.
“Thank you, Principal Johnson,” he began formally. “Greetings, Parents, Teachers, Fellow Classmates.”
He had greased his hair back again, but as he spoke, it sprang back to its usual spiky state with an almost audible boing. He patted it down. “For the last few months—”
His hair sprang up again. There were a few giggles. He coughed. This was not an auspicious beginning.
After his stint on the big stage in Las Vegas, Max-Ernest had expected a mere middle-school graduation (or, as he thought of it now, a gig) to be no big deal. But looking out at all the people who had been characters in the story of his life for the last eight-odd years, he found himself unaccountably nervous.
“For the last few months,” he began reading again, “I’ve been racking my brain trying to find the perfect joke to open this speech. Well, I think I came up with something that’s going to really, really shock you.”
The audience tittered nervously. A few teachers gave him warning looks. This was not the occasion for an off-color joke.
“I’m not going to open with a joke at all.” Everybody laughed with relief.

“See, I told you it would be shocking.” Max-Ernest looked up at the audience and smiled mischievously. “Well, now that I’ve opened without a joke, I’m going to tell a joke anyway. Bet you didn’t see that coming!”
“No, don’t do it, dude!” “Stop!” “Just say no!” his friends shouted good-naturedly.
“Kidding! I’m actually going to skip right to the serious part.” He looked down at his speech again. “When I was younger, I had a lot of trouble relating to other kids. People who know me know that I didn’t always understand my peers, and they didn’t understand me. That’s a polite way of saying they thought I was really annoying.”
“We still do!” yelled Glob.
“See, and that’s one of my best friends,” said Max-Ernest. “Sometimes, I thought everybody else had a secret sense that I didn’t have. Something besides the usual senses—smell, hearing, taste, sight, and touch. A sixth sense, in other words. But what was that secret sense? I used to wonder. Telepathy? Seeing dead people? Was that what was really happening on the schoolyard all that time, so I didn’t know what the other kids were talking about? They were seeing ghosts?”
The audience laughed. Cass and Yo-Yoji exchanged looks. The speech was getting a little too close to home.
“As most of you know, I like to tell jokes and riddles. A lot. I’ve always been interested in jokes, but I’m not sure I ever understood why. As I think about it now, though, I think jokes were my way of trying to learn or acquire this secret sense that other kids have. To me, the sixth sense is not something especially supernatural. It is something that binds us together as people. And makes us human. It’s a sense of humor.”
He paused to make sure he still had everybody’s attention. He did.
“Friends don’t have to have a lot of things in common. One of them might like, oh, solar flashlights. Another might like Day-Glo sneakers.…”
He smiled at Cass and Yo-Yoji. Cass smiled back. Yo-Yoji gave him a thumbs-up.
“Another might like chocolate. Lots of chocolate. I’m not naming names—” Casually, he pulled a chocolate bar out of his coat pocket, unwrapped it, and took a big bite.
There were more laughs—his biggest yet.
“But there’s one thing friends usually do have in common—a sense of humor. That doesn’t mean they have to find all the same things funny. Sometimes, they might even laugh at each other. But at the end of the day, friends can always laugh with each other.”
Cass and Yo-Yoji turned to each other and smiled. Their friend was doing great. As they turned back, their hands accidentally brushed. Cass was shocked to find their pinkies interlocking—just the way her mother’s and Albert 3-D’s had! She froze, the blood rushing in her ears. Max-Ernest might have been speechifying about the sense of humor, but it was the sense of touch that now occupied Cass’s attention.
After an agonizing moment, she and Yo-Yoji pulled away from each other. “Are you still wearing that ring?” whispered Yo-Yoji, not looking at her.
“No. Why?” she whispered back, not just her ears but her whole face bright red with embarrassment.
“I just thought I felt, uh, a jolt or something. Never mind,” said Yo-Yoji quickly. “Quiet, lovebirds—your friend’s talking,” said Glob from the row behind them. Daniel-not-Danielle giggled. “Yeah, show some respect.”
Mortified, Cass and Yo-Yoji sat stiffly in their chairs, neither able to muster the slightest comeback.

Max-Ernest, meanwhile, had reached full stride. “The official theme of this speech is supposed to be ‘The Secret of Success,’” he said, with a nod toward Mrs. Johnson. “Well, I don’t know if a sense of humor is the secret of success. So far, I haven’t made a lot of money as a comedian. In fact, I’ve been booed off the stage. But life is full of boos, not just for comedians, and it’s a sense of humor that gets you through the boos. And the blues, too.”
The audience groaned at the pun.
“Sorry, couldn’t resist. If you can’t see the ridiculous side of things, it’s awfully hard to deal with the serious side. A sense of humor may not be the secret of success, in other words, but I’m pretty sure it’s the secret of life.”
Max-Ernest glanced at Cass. She shook her head slightly, as if to say, You’re skating on thin ice with this secret stuff, buddy, but he could see she was smiling.
“So here we are, about to graduate from middle school,” he continued. “We’ve crossed one bridge, and we’re about to cross another. Speaking of which, that reminds me of a joke—”
There were more groans. “No, don’t do it!” “Spare us!”
Max-Ernest laughed. “You didn’t really think I wouldn’t tell one, did you? Actually, the joke I’m thinking of is the oldest joke in the book: why did the chicken cross the road? You all know the answer: to get to the other side. But think about it—that isn’t really an answer; it’s a statement of the obvious. In a sense, it’s a restatement of the question. That’s why it’s funny. But that’s also why it’s mysterious.”
He paused, slowing himself down. The one piece of advice Mrs. Johnson had given him was not to read too quickly.
“On some level, we don’t really know why we do anything. Even less do we know where we’re going. What lies on the other side of the road? We don’t know until we get there. As the saying goes, it’s not the destination, it’s the journey. Whatever lies on the other side of the road, even if there’s nothing much there at all, I’ve learned a lot along the way—from all of you. And now, like the rest of you, I’m getting out of here and I’m going to go take my act on the r—”
As he pronounced that last word, his voice cracked. Not so much from emotion, I’m afraid, but in that way that the voices of boys Max-Ernest’s age so often do. Max-Ernest’s voice was changing at the very moment he was finding it.
“Road,” he squeaked out.
Nobody laughed at him this time. Not so much because they were being nice, but because they had tears in their eyes. So did he.
“I’ll miss you all,” said Max-Ernest.
And he walked off the stage to a standing ovation.

Amid the tears and applause, nobody noticed as Amber slipped away from her seat on the edge of the bleachers—least of all her parents. Nor did they see her climbing into the limousine that waited just outside the school gates.
Ms. Mauvais welcomed her with barely a nod, then waved to the driver with her gloved hand. In silence, they drove off in search of a never-setting sun.

EPILOGUE 

Well, what did you think of my speech? Not bad for a kid, right?
I know, I know, I should never have started a sentence with as the saying goes. (If you ever give a graduation speech, please stay away from that awful phrase.) But all in all…?
Oh, what’s that? It’s not the speech—you’re just surprised to hear me admit it outright? You mean admit that I, a man of such vast wisdom and experience—not to mention wit, intelligence, taste, and discernment—that I, your not-so-humble narrator, Pseudonymous Bosch, I was young once, too?
Ah, well. You knew it all along anyway.
The story of how that boy became this man—I am not going to tell it now. (But if you can string together the words volcano, ambidextrous, rhinoceros, spiderweb, mucus, and swim—then, my friend, you are a much more inventive writer than I.) And I’m sorry to disappoint you, but I’m not going to tell you any more about the lives of Cass or Yo-Yoji or anybody else, either. Not right now.
I want to protect what little is left of their privacy; the Midnight Sun, as you know, is still at large, and our friends are still in danger. But I also want to protect something else: your imagination.
Think: do you really like it when a book or a movie tells you what happens to characters after the end of a story? I don’t like it at all. Usually, I get the feeling that the author or filmmaker is just making up the characters’ fates on the fly. Is that really what happened? I wonder. Or did he just want to wrap up everything in a nice, tidy package?
In my experience, life rarely proceeds so neatly. It has a tendency to go off in all sorts of unexpected directions. Which is exactly where I like it to go.
As the saying goes, there’s another side to every story. (Oops! Well, as that other saying goes, do as I say, not as I do.) If you take anything away from our time together, other than a toothache from all that chocolate, I hope it’s the sense that what lies on the other side of a story is always a surprise.
Whether the other side itself is the Secret or whether the Secret is on the other side is a distinction without a difference. Either way, there’s a new secret to discover.
The Secret is in your hands now. Don’t let anyone spoil the ending.
—PB

* THE CORRECT ANSWER IS (E) RUN!, AS IN RUN AWAY FROM THIS BOOK RIGHT NOW IF YOU KNOW WHAT’S GOOD FOR YOU.

* BORIS KARLOFF WAS AN ACTOR WHO BECAME FAMOUS IN THE 1930S PLAYING DEAD BODIES THAT COME BACK TO LIFE. IF YOU ARE UNFAMILIAR WITH HIS OEUVRE, I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THE CLASSIC HORROR FILMS FRANKENSTEIN AND THE MUMMY. (IF YOU ARE UNFAMILIAR WITH THE WORD OEUVRE, IT IS THE BODY OF WORK OF AN ARTIST, WRITER, OR COMPOSER—LIVING, DEAD, OR OTHERWISE.) IN THE MUMMY, KARLOFF PLAYS IMHOTEP, A MUMMY REAWAKENED WHEN AN ARCHAEOLOGIST ACCIDENTALLY READS AN ANCIENT EGYPTIAN SPELL. BY FAR KARLOFF’S SCARIEST ROLE, HOWEVER, WAS SANTA CLAUS. HE DRESSED AS THE RED-SUITED HOUSEBREAKER EVERY CHRISTMAS AND HANDED OUT PRESENTS TO NEEDY CHILDREN, DOUBTLESS TERRIFYING THEM HALF TO DEATH.

* BOG MUMMIES, IF YOU’RE CURIOUS (AND I CAN’T IMAGINE THAT YOU AREN’T), ARE USUALLY FOUND IN THE BOGS OF NORTHERN EUROPE. THE PEAT IN THE BOGS ACTS AS A UNIQUE PRESERVATIVE—AND LEAVES THE FACES OF BOG MUMMIES UNIQUELY LIFELIKE.

* THE EGYPTIAN BOOK OF THE DEAD, ALSO KNOWN AS THE PAPYRUS OF ANI, IS THE ESSENTIAL FUNERARY GUIDE THAT NO SELF- RESPECTING AMATEUR EGYPTOLOGIST CAN DO WITHOUT. TO QUOTE NO LESS AN AUTHORITY THAN ONE PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH (SEE THE SECRET SERIES, BOOK 1), “IT INCLUDES MANY IMPORTANT SPELLS AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR SUCCESS IN THE AFTERLIFE— A USEFUL INTRODUCTION TO ANCIENT EGYPTIAN LIFE ABOVEGROUND AS WELL!”

* YOU MAY BE INTERESTED TO LEARN THAT IBIS MUMMIES ARE QUITE COMMON. IN THE NECROPOLIS OF SAQQÂRA—THE EGYPTIANS’ FAMED CITY OF THE DEAD—ARCHAEOLOGISTS DISCOVERED THE MUMMIES OF ONE AND A HALF MILLION IBISES. IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE IBISES WERE RAISED ON RANCHES SPECIFICALLY FOR THE PURPOSE OF BEING MUMMIFIED AND OFFERED TO THE
GODS. UPSETTING? PERHAPS. BUT CONSIDER THE FATE OF A CHICKEN.

* A CANOPIC JAR, AS YOU NO DOUBT REMEMBER FROM YOUR OWN STUDIES, IS A JAR IN WHICH THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANS STORED AND PRESERVED THE ORGANS OF THE DEAD.

* MAX-ERNEST MUST HAVE BEEN VERY PREOCCUPIED WITH THE MUMMY IN FRONT OF HIM. OTHERWISE, HE WOULD HAVE MENTIONED THAT THERE IS NOT JUST ONE PAINTING CALLED THE SCREAM; THERE ARE SEVERAL. THE ARTIST, EDVARD MUNCH, PAINTED THE SAME IMAGE MANY TIMES, AS IF HE COULD NEVER QUITE GET IT RIGHT. THE MESSAGE IS CLEAR: IF AT FIRST YOU DON’T SUCCEED… SCREAM. AND SCREAM AGAIN.

* THE IDEA OF THE MUMMY’S CURSE BECAME POPULAR WHEN SEVERAL MEN INVOLVED IN THE DISCOVERY OF KING TUTANKHAMEN’S TOMB DIED SOON AFTER HIS DISINTERMENT. LATER, PEOPLE SPECULATED THAT THREE-THOUSAND-YEAR-OLD BACTERIA RELEASED FROM TUT’S TOMB MIGHT HAVE BEEN TO BLAME, BUT FRANKLY THERE IS EVEN LESS BASIS FOR THAT THEORY. I WOULD GO WITH THE CURSE.

* SPEAKING OF CRIMINAL CARELESSNESS, I FEAR I MAY HAVE JUST EXCEEDED MY ALLOWABLE ALLITERATION ALLOTMENT.… OOPS. THERE I GO AGAIN!

* I BELIEVE THE LEARNED PROFESSOR HERE WAS REFERRING TO A PARTICULAR PRIVATE PART OF KING TUTANKHAMEN’S. (YOU CAN GUESS WHICH PART I MEAN.) APPARENTLY, THIS PART WAS INTACT AND FULLY ATTACHED WHEN HOWARD CARTER FIRST EXHUMED THE MUMMY OF THE YOUNG PHARAOH IN 1922. IN THE 1960S, IT WAS NOTICED THAT THE PART HAD MYSTERIOUSLY BROKEN OFF, AND FOR YEARS NOBODY KNEW WHERE IT HAD GONE. MORE RECENTLY, HOWEVER, A CT SCAN OF KING TUT REVEALED THAT THE ROYAL APPENDAGE HAD FALLEN INTO THE SAND BENEATH THE MUMMY AND HAD LAIN THERE QUIETLY FOR
YEARS, AWAITING DISCOVERY.

* I KNOW, YOU RECOGNIZED HER IMMEDIATELY. THE LONG DESCRIPTION WASN’T NECESSARY; I JUST FELT LIKE WRITING IT.

* I THINK MOST PEOPLE WOULD AGREE. THE QUESTION IS WHETHER THOSE ARE DESIRABLE TRAITS IN A BOOK.

* MY TELL, IN CASE YOU’RE WONDERING, IS A SLIGHT TWITCH IN MY RIGHT EYE, BUT I KNOW BETTER THAN TO LET ANYONE SEE IT. HENCE MY PROPENSITY FOR DARK SUNGLASSES. OF COURSE, EVEN IF I WERE TO TAKE OFF MY SUNGLASSES, YOU WOULDN’T BE ABLE TO TELL WHETHER I WAS TELLING THE TRUTH ABOUT MY TELL. IF MY EYE DIDN’T TWITCH, IT MIGHT MEAN THAT I WAS TELLING THE TRUTH; THEN AGAIN, IT MIGHT MEAN THAT I WAS LYING, AND MY TELL WAS SOMETHING ELSE—WHETHER A FLARING NOSTRIL OR A TAPPING FOOT. YET IF MY EYE TWITCHED, IT WOULD BE EVEN MORE CONFUSING.

* IN THE EVENT OF ALL-OUT NUCLEAR WAR OR SOME OTHER KIND OF GLOBAL DISASTER, PAPER MONEY WOULD PROBABLY BE WORTHLESS, CASS THOUGHT; GOLD WAS MORE LIKELY TO MAINTAIN ITS VALUE.

* A TOUCHSTONE IS A SMALL TABLET OF DARK STONE, SUCH AS FIELDSTONE OR SLATE, USED FOR ASSAYING (I.E., JUDGING THE COMPOSITION OF) PRECIOUS METALS. DRAWING A LINE OF GOLD ON A TOUCHSTONE LEAVES A VISIBLE TRACE, AND BECAUSE DIFFERENT GOLD ALLOYS HAVE DIFFERENT COLORS, THIS LINE REVEALS HOW PURE THE PIECE OF GOLD IS. IN EVERYDAY SPEECH, A TOUCHSTONE MAY REFER TO ANYTHING BY WHICH OTHER THINGS OF ITS KIND ARE MEASURED. FOR EXAMPLE, WHEN IT COMES TO LITERARY GENIUS, THE BOOKS OF PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH PROVIDE A TOUCHSTONE.

* THE PARTING OF THE RED SEA, AS YOU MAY RECALL, IS PART OF THE STORY OF MOSES AND THE EXODUS FROM EGYPT. AS YO- YOJI HAD SURMISED, CASS HAD NEVER HAD MUCH OF A RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. NONETHELESS, IN THE COURSE OF HER STUDIES OF SUCH THINGS AS PLAGUES (MODERN AS WELL AS ANCIENT), DYING FROGS (A SURE SIGN OF ENVIRONMENTAL CATASTROPHE), AND
RED SEAS (THE KIND CAUSED BY ALGAE), SHE’D COME ACROSS THE STORY OF THE EXODUS SEVERAL TIMES.

* GOLDFINGER IS THE VILLAIN IN THE JAMES BOND MOVIE OF THE SAME NAME. OBSESSED WITH GOLD, HE KILLS A WOMAN BY PAINTING HER ENTIRE BODY WITH IT. MIDAS IS A FIGURE FROM GREEK MYTHOLOGY WHO LITERALLY HAD THE GOLDEN TOUCH: EVERYTHING HE TOUCHED TURNED TO GOLD, EVEN HIS FAMILY. AS FOR A SPIDER’S TOUCH, THAT’S SOMETHING I EXPERIENCE ALL TOO OFTEN IN MY CURRENT HIDEOUT. CURSE THESE CREATURES!

* CHINOISERIE MEANS CHINESE—OR, MORE ACCURATELY, CHINESE THINGS—IN FRENCH. THE WORD USUALLY REFERS TO THINGS THAT LOOK CHINESE IN STYLE, THOUGH THEY ARE NOT TRULY CHINESE. JUST AS THIS FOOTNOTE LOOKS LIKE IT CONTAINS USEFUL INFORMATION, THOUGH IT TRULY DOES NOT.

* WHAT IS A FOREWORD? WHY, IT’S THE OPPOSITE OF A BACKWORD, OF COURSE. AH, BUT THERE’S NO SUCH WORD AS BACKWORD, ONLY BACKWARD. AND YOU DON’T SAY A BACKWARD, ANYWAY. (UNLESS YOU’RE TALKING ABOUT THE BACK OF THE WARD—YOU KNOW, WHERE THEY KEEP THE REALLY CRAZY PEOPLE.) YOU’RE RIGHT; I WAS JOKING. A FOREWORD IS A SECTION AT THE FRONT OF A BOOK WHERE YOU ARE LIKELY TO FIND SOMETHING ABOUT THE ORIGINS OF OR INSPIRATION FOR THE BOOK. BUT THAT DOESN’T SOUND NEARLY AS ORIGINAL OR INSPIRED, DOES IT?

WRITE THIS BOOK 
A DO-IT-YOURSELF MYSTERY
Written by YOU
with the reluctant assistance of pseudonymous bosch

SUGGESTED TITLES
The Best Book Ever Written
The Book That’s Going to Make Me Famous
Buy This Book, You Won’t Regret It
Like a Video Game, Only More Awesome
Read and Be Amazed
I Just Wrote This Book, What Have You Done?
Harry Potter and the __________*

SUGGESTED PSEUDONYMS
Dr. Seuss
Mark Twain
Lewis Carroll
Anne Ominus
Pseudonymous Bosch

ALTERNATIVE TITLE PAGE
If you don’t like Write This Book—and, really, what kind of title is that?—then please write your own title here.*
______________
______________

Written by
______________

Choose your pseudonym or, as I prefer to call it, your nom de plume. Or really confuse everybody and use your real name!**

DEDICATION PAGE*

Circle all that apply.

This book is dedicated to:

1. everyone who said I would never write a book

2. my future fans

3. my language arts teacher (can’t hurt, right?)

4. the highest bidder

5. me, because who am I really writing this book for, after all?

EPIGRAPH*

Choose one or more:

The birth of the reader must be at the cost of the death of the Author.
—Roland Barthes

The index of a book should always be written by the author, even though the book itself should be the work of another hand.
—Mark Twain

O CHILD LEARN YOUR ABZ’S AND MEMORIZE THEM WELL AND YOU SHALL LEARN TO TALK AND THINK AND READ AND WRITE AND SPEL.
—Shel Silverstein

Xx xx xx xxx xx xx xxxx xx xxx xxxxxxxx.
—Xxxxxxxxxxxx Xxxxx


FOREWORD

IMAGINE YOU’RE READING A BOOK.

It’s a far-fetched idea, I realize, but indulge me for a moment.

What’s that? You want to know what you are reading?

You’re reading a book. Like this one. You know, with sentences. And paragraphs. That sort of thing.

Where are you reading? Oh, on a plane?

On a train?

Hanging upside down?
  
Wherever you want.

So, as I was saying, you’re reading this book and—

Why are you reading? Aaargh. Who’s the writer here, anyway? (Well, actually, that’s the question I’m getting to, but be patient.) Maybe you’re reading for school. Or maybe you’re reading because your parent is paying you. (Now, there’s a good reason to read a book.) Or maybe you’re reading for fun. Because you like to read. It is possible.**
Now, please, don’t interrupt again.

Imagine you’re reading a book. Whatever book. In whatever location. For whatever reason. Somehow you manage to get through the first few sentences without falling asleep. You’re even a little bit intrigued. A little bit. Mildly.

Before you know it, you’ve read a whole page. Then two pages. The book is starting to grab you because it’s funny or scary or mysterious. Or because the main character reminds you of somebody you know. Or because it’s about your favorite subject—chocolate. (Well, my favorite, anyway.) Or maybe you don’t know why you like the book. It doesn’t matter—you’re on a reading roll! You consider bragging online about it, or rewarding yourself with a snack, or ascending to the next level on the video game you were playing a moment before. But you decide to stick with it a moment longer. After all, your parent is paying you, right? (I knew that was it!) You’ll read another page or two before calling it a night.

So you turn the page, you read another sentence, and then… nothing. The words just drop off. Like this

(Well, you get the idea.)

Frantically, you flip pages.
Almost the entire book is blank.
What is going on? What happened to the story? What kind of book is this?
You start to feel angry. You want your money back. (So what if you checked out the book from the library—the library had to pay for it, right?) Let’s see, what did this book cost? What else could you have bought with that princely sum? How many movie tickets? How many candy bars? All that for the price of one so-called book without any writing in it? What a rip!
Well, I have bad news to share with you: something like that happens in this book. Not just once. Over and over again. A certain author, whom I won’t name (okay, me), has abandoned his book and has left his readers hanging out to dry. This is a crime, I admit, almost on a par with abandoning your child. Or even your lunch. But there it is. Most of this book, well, I just haven’t written it. And I’m not going to, either.
Why? Oh, I have my reasons. Big. Grown-up. Author. Reasons. Unfortunately, I can’t reveal them yet. Let’s just say a life is at stake (mine) and leave it at that.
I know, you’re steaming mad, and you have every right to be, but before you toss this book in the trash, consider my message to you: DIY
  
No, silly. Not DIE. (I want you alive, but, please, no kicking.) D—I—Y. Do it yourself. I’m offering you the opportunity to write this book yourself.
That’s right, you. You, the poor person unlucky enough to pick up this useless pile of words. I’m sorry, I mean you, the clever person lucky enough to pick up this delightful piece of prose!
You, the reader of this book, shall be the author of this book.
Think about what that means: an entire world under your control. Heroes and heroines, action and adventure, laughter and tears—all yours for the taking… or, rather, for the making. There might be dragons or unicorns or ninjas or zombies or cockroaches. And those are just the people you know. Wait until you get to invent new stuff! This could be fun. It should be fun. In my experience, the more fun you have writing, the more fun your reader will have reading.

Dragon Unicorn Ninja Zombie Cockroach
  
What do you say?

Haven’t you ever wanted to write a book? I can’t tell you how many letters I get from readers asking for advice about writing. Where do you get your ideas? What makes a good story? How do I get published? Well, here it is—a book written by you that’s already published.

MY BOOK
BY YOUR NAME HERE

Just think: it’s your book. With your name on it. You can even put your picture on the back.

Not everyone's as vain as you are, P.B. You can't buy off people so easily! 
Sorry, that's my pet rabbit assistant, Quiche. Ignore him.

I’ll tell you what: to sweeten the deal, I will give you a few helpful hints. I might even write a chapter or two for you. Three, I’ll write three chapters. This won’t be hard—well, not very hard, I promise. And who knows? You might even learn something about writing while you’re at it.
  
Learn something from YOU?
SHH! Nobody's listening to you, Quiche!

So, my dear reader and (I hope) writer, can I assume you’re in?
What’s that? You want to know what the book’s about before you commit to writing it? Hmm. Normally, I wouldn’t tell you about a book before you read it. That’s what’s called spoiling the plot, and in my world it’s a capital offense. However, if you’re going to write this book, I suppose it’s only fair that I give you an idea.

The book is a mystery about a missing author, I.B. Anonymous—a writer of mysteries for young readers who abandons a manuscript before it’s finished. Sound familiar?*

Where has this mysterious author gone? Ah, that I cannot tell you. Is I.B. dead or alive? Is he on the run from the law? Is he in a witness protection program? Was he kidnapped? Abducted by aliens?
  
As the new author of this book, you have to figure out what happened to the old author. Without you, he will never be found. The story will never be told, and the book will never be finished.

Think of it this way: this book is a mystery novel—but this time the mystery is the novel itself. It’s an inside-out mystery. Call it The Case of the Missing Author.

Your job is to solve it.

Good luck.

—P.B.


PREFACE

Your chance to add a few words before we begin:
  
CHAPTER ONE

Beginnings: The Blank Page

Enough with the epigraphs and dedications! It’s time to start writing this book in earnest. Ready?

One…

Two…

Three…

GO

What happened? You’re sure not writing very fast.

Scary, isn’t it? A blank page staring you in the face.

Luckily, that’s just a drawing. Pages don’t really stare at you; you stare at them. It follows that a blank page should be scared of you, not the other way around. Feel better?

Good. Now get to it—

What? Still having trouble?

Oh, I forgot. Here are some lines to help guide your handwriting:

Don’t tell me, you want straight lines. So fussy!

It’s not the lines? You don’t know what to write?
I hope you’re not just procrastinating.*
  
You're the one procrastinating. You said you'd write a chapter, remember? Three, to be exact.
Three chapters? I don't remember that... 

OK, OK, I’ll write the first chapter. But please, dear reader, don’t get used to it. You are going to have to take the wheel soon—even if you don’t have a driver’s license. In fact, let’s not call it a chapter; let’s call it a prologue. That way I won’t feel like I’m doing so much work.*

At the beginning of a book, many writers, especially lazy writers like me, try to grab their readers with a quick action-oriented teaser, like you might see on a crime show on TV. This is hack writing of the highest order. And it’s exactly what I’m going to attempt here.
Now pay attention. This is the beginning of your very own book.

The Case of the Missing Author
Prologue

It all began with a laugh, a cry, and a thud. The laugh was so loud it—
What, you’re stopping me already? Oh, you think It all began with is a dull way to begin, do you?
At least you’ll admit that the laugh-cry-thud combo creates a compelling sense of mystery….
No? The only mystery is why I’m such a bad writer that it makes you want to laugh and cry at once?
You’re a hoot. Where did you get that joke from—my genius rabbit? I’ll tell you what, smarty-pants, why don’t we keep my first sentence—temporarily—as a placeholder, then you can insert your vastly better sentence at a later time. Fair enough?
Now, with your permission, I will begin again. Read closely—this is your chance to see a master writer at work! And yes, by master writer I am referring to myself.

Pseudo-intelligence: First sentence or death sentence?
Let’s face it: most readers will never get past your first sentence. You may as well make it a good one. But how? Many writers slave over their opening sentences, trying to come up with something profound. (Happy twelve-year-olds are all alike; every unhappy twelve-year-old is unhappy in his own way.) Other writers make desperate attempts to create a compelling, er, sense of mystery. (Like, say, It all began with a laugh, a cry, and a thud.) Still others try to make their first sentences look exactly like all their other sentences; in other words, they try very hard to make it look like they didn’t try very hard. (For instance… actually, it’s hard to think of one of those because, well, they sound just like other sentences.) As for your first sentence, my advice is to come up with a few, then choose which one you like best. Chances are you’ll be able to use all of them eventually. If you can’t think of a decent first sentence, write your second sentence. Or third. Or last. Don’t let your first sentence turn into a death sentence.*
  
The Case of the Missing Author

Prologue
It all began with a laugh, a cry, and a thud.
The laugh was so loud it made Z____ sit up in bed. It came from across the street and it sounded like the laugh of a madman. It gave him the creeps.
Before Z____ could lie back down, the laugh was replaced by a desperate, piercing cry. The cry of a wounded animal. Or of a man reduced to the state of an animal.
The cry was followed by a thud so heavy it could have been a boulder falling to the floor.

Or a dead body.

Z____ ran into his sister’s room. A drastic measure reserved strictly for emergencies. “A____, wake up.”

“Go away.” A____ tried to bury her head in her pillow, but Z____ gave her a hard sh—

If this is supposed to be so educational, Mr.-cough- Master Writer, why don't you talk about how you're setting up your characters and their relationship?
Because I thought it was obvious, Mr.-cough-Assistant! Z____ doesn't like his sister. Or she's very strict about not letting him into her room. Or her room is so messy it's dangerous. Or-well, the point is, all that stuff will be decided later. I'm being purposefully, er...
Vague and confusing?
Yes... no!
Now you're confusing me.

“Go away.” A____ tried to bury her head in her pillow, but Z____ gave her a hard shake.

“It’s important.”

“What is?”

He told her what he’d heard.

She cocked her head, listening. All was silent now. “And you’re sure it was him?” She gestured in the direction of the house across the street.

“Uh-huh. C’mon—we have to do something!”

Grumpily, A____ followed Z____ downstairs.

Hearts beating fast, they cracked open the front door and peeked out. There was a full moon and they could see as clearly as if it were daytime. And yet there was nothing to see. The house across the street looked completely peaceful.

A____ stared at it, more curious than she’d let on. Their new neighbor had moved in two months earlier. They knew next to nothing about him, only that he was supposed to be some kind of author—a profession that might be suspicious in the eyes of some but that intrigued her greatly.

There. Now you know their neighbor is an author. (Did you guess that this author is I.B. himself? Then you’re one step ahead.) You see how I’m weaving in crucial information without interrupting the flow of the story?

In other words, you're interrupting your story to tell us you're not interrupting your story....
You're the one who told me to!

“Maybe he was reading one of his books out loud,” A____ suggested. “I heard writers do that.”*

“It wasn’t words; it was a laugh, and then a scream, and then—” “So what do you want to do? Knock on his door?”

Z____ shrugged unhappily. He didn’t know what he wanted to do.

“He won’t let anyone in during the daytime,” A____ continued. “Can you imagine how mad he would be if somebody barged in on him in the middle of the night?”

“He won’t be mad if he’s dead.”

A____ rolled her eyes. “Maybe he was watching a sitcom and that was the laugh you heard. Then he switched to a horror movie—”

“And then what—he knocked the TV over?”

“Why not? Aren’t all writers supposed to be crazy?”

Z____ laughed, his mind turning to the mystery series he was reading: A Series of Secrets by I.B. Anonymous. If their neighbor’s books were anything like I.B.’s, then their neighbor must be completely nuts.

This neighbor guy does sound familiar...

His sister was right, thought Z____: in a writer’s house, sounds didn’t necessarily mean what you thought they did.

Remembering all the twists and turns and zany reveals in I.B.’s secret stories, Z____ allowed A____ to lead him back upstairs.

Shortly afterward, the door of their neighbor’s house opened, and a pair of eyes peered out into the night. Satisfied that he/she/it wasn’t being watched, the owner of those eyes crept out of the house.

A moment later, he/she/it had vanished.

Out of the distance came the sound of a dog—or was it a wolf?—howling at the moon.

Department of Pitfalls: His and Hers

A moment later, he/she/it had vanished.

He/she/it? Did I really write that awkward conjunction of pronouns? You should definitely change it when you revise this book.

There are few problems more perplexing than how to refer to somebody whose gender is unknown. In the case above, I didn’t want to give up anything about the identity of the creature exiting the author’s house—that’s why I wrote what I wrote. But often vagueness is not a matter of choice.

Is my reader a girl or a boy? I don’t know. Despite what I may pretend, I can’t see you. He/she, s/he, it, they, them—we well-meaning authors will try everything and anything so as not to exclude anybody. Often, I confess, I give up and simply write he or him or his when what I mean is: he or she or him or her or his or hers. I do this because I am lazy and my wellmeaning-ness only goes so far. I do not recommend that you follow my example; undoubtedly, it is unfair to my female readers. Indeed, you should feel free to cross out all my hes and hims and his’s, or at least to add a few shes and hers and hers’s.
  
His's and hers's?
Your writing is getting worse's and worse's!

PROCRASTINATION PAGE

SPEND TEN MINUTES IMAGINING WHAT YOU WILL WEAR WHEN YOU’RE A FAMOUS WRITER.*

DECIDE IT’S ALL WRONG.

THINK OF SOMETHING ELSE TO WEAR.

DECIDE IT’S ALL WRONG, TOO.

CHAPTER TWO

Writing Materials: The mise en place

Well, did you like the beginning of your book? Think you can do better?

Good. You can prove it by answering the following:

What happens next?

(Almost all fiction writing boils down to that essential question.)

What—you’re not a fortune-teller? You can’t see the future?

Very funny. I meant, what happens next in your story—not what happens next in your life.

You may not be able to see the future, but as the author of this book you can write it.

You still don’t know what happens next?

I don’t mean to insult you, but I’m not surprised. It’s very difficult to make something from nothing.

Creative freedom is all well and good, but in my opinion, writing requires a degree of preparation. I feel the same way about dinner. Making dinner, that is. (Eating dinner I’m happy to do quite spontaneously.) Whenever I cook, I try to assemble my ingredients beforehand. I don’t want to get halfway through my chocolate chip cookie dough only to discover I’ve already eaten all the chocolate chips.

Which you usually have!
Watch out, Quiche, or I just might eat you!

The French have a name for this practice of preassembling ingredients, as they do for many crucial culinary activities: the mise en place. The set in place. To make sure you have all the materials you need for your book, I suggest you create a literary mise en place.

Rhymes with "sneeze on boss" ...

What should go into your mise en place? Aside from those chocolate chips, of course. (Chocolate, I’m sure you’ll agree, is absolutely vital to the writing process.) Well, what is necessary for writing? Let’s start with the basics:

* a writing utensil (pen, pencil, crayon, feather quill, electronic computational device, lipstick, chocolate-smeared finger)

* a writing surface (napkin, table, tablet, chalkboard, bedroom wall, dusty car window, plaster cast, old tennis shoe, palm of hand)

* and… something to write about (Ah, now that’s the tricky one, isn’t it?)

What about a rabbit slave to type everything for you? You missed that one!

What should you keep by your side to help you come up with story ideas? One answer is:

anything that inspires you.

Feel free to ignore this list and create your own:

A BAD DREAM
A GOOD JOKE
AN OLD COMIC
A BROKEN TOY
AN OVERHEARD CONVERSATION
CHOCOLATE
MORE CHOCOLATE
RANDOM FACTS ABOUT BLACK HOLES AND DINOSAURS
A PICTURE OF YOUR ENEMY WITH A SCRIBBLE MUSTACHE
A PAGE COPIED FROM YOUR SISTER’S DIARY
YOUR FATHER’S HAT
YOUR FAVORITE SHOE
A LIST OF FUNNY FOREIGN SWEAR WORDS
A UFO SIGHTING
A REFLECTIVE SURFACE
A DIAGRAM OF A SPACE STATION… FOR MICE
AND DID I MENTION CHOCOLATE?
  
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   

But if the story you’re telling is not utterly unconventional—if it’s not just a bunch of unrelated words strung together—then your story probably consists of somebody doing something… somewhere. Right? Thus, in addition to all the delightfully strange things your imagination can come up with, your mise en place should probably include:

* a hero (such as a knight or a wizard or a collie)

* a task for said hero to perform (in most cases, this task will not be easy; it will entail overcoming obstacles—befriending dragons, fighting inner demons, learning to spell Azerbaijan—to achieve a goal)

* and a world in which said hero performs said task (also known as the setting of the story)

Those three things are the main elements of most stories. Obvious? Perhaps. But it took me years to learn this simple formula—or maybe, in keeping with the mise en place idea, I should say this simple recipe.*

HERO TASK WORLD
STORY

Take my favorite book of all time, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. The hero of the book? Easy. It’s Charlie, the poor boy who doesn’t have enough to eat. The world of the book? Also easy. Willy Wonka’s magical and mysterious chocolate factory—it’s right there in the title alongside the name of our hero. Our hero’s task? Well, I suppose that one’s a little more difficult to discern. In the early part of the book, Charlie’s task is to find a golden ticket so as to gain entry to the chocolate factory and earn a lifetime’s supply of chocolate. Later, it turns out that he has been unknowingly performing a much larger task: proving his moral worth to Wonka, thereby making himself Wonka’s heir and ensuring that he will have not just a lifetime’s but an absolutely unlimited supply of chocolate. Thus, you might say, Charlie’s real task is to acquire as much chocolate as humanly possible—a task I set for myself every day.

You spoiled the ending!
How can you spoil the best ending of all time? That much chocolate is unspoilable!

Now let’s get back to your story.


I have already (and very helpfully, I might add!) supplied a task for your hero to perform: finding the missing author—that mysteriously familiar-sounding mystery novelist, I.B. Anonymous. The world of your book is the time and place in which I.B. must be found; and we’ll get there soon enough—i.e., at another time and place. Which leaves your hero—him-, her-

* or itself—the most important element of a story, according to many writers wiser than I. (Me, I tend to judge books by the number of references to chocolate; you’ll notice I try to write the word as often as possible.)

So, my budding young author friend, who is your protagonist, as your language arts teacher might put it?

Who is the hero of your book?

Pseudo-intelligence: To outline or not to outline?

A mise en place is not to be confused with that dread thing—I hesitate even to mention the word—an outline. If you like outlines—and many do, especially editors and teachers and other people I consider my natural enemies—then great, go to it, outline away. Bullet points. Index cards. Spreadsheets. They’re all yours. To me, outlines are worse than unhelpful—they’re totally disheartening—for the simple reason that I am never able to complete them. Instead of giving me confidence in the book I’m writing, an outline makes me all too aware of how difficult it’s going to be to get to the end. What I like about the idea of the mise en place is that it allows you to gather story elements without forcing you to think through your entire novel before it’s written. A mise en place implies a recipe—but an open-ended one. A recipe that’s subject to change.
  
CHAPTER THREE
Your Heroes: From A to Z

I say heroes—plural—because, as you no doubt have noted, I’ve already given you two: the siblings A____ and Z____. Why? With two heroes, there are more opportunities to write dialogue; and, as everyone knows, dialogue is much more fun to read than description. Also, having two heroes allows us to make one a girl and one a boy. That way all your readers will feel represented.

For simplicity’s sake, I made A____ and Z____ sister and brother. But you can change most everything about them, including their relationship. Perhaps they’re not a girl and a boy after all. Perhaps they’re a girl and her pet monster. Or, better yet, a monster and his pet girl.
  
Ahem, what about rabbits? I don't feel represented.

The one thing you cannot change is the role they play. If they are your heroes, then they are the ones who must track down the missing author. As you create their characters in your imagination, you should think about what kind of people would be best suited for this role—and what kind least suited. (Sometimes, it’s more fun to have an unlikely hero.) From the prologue, we can surmise that A____ and Z____ are curious about their neighbor. Are they reluctant detectives or eager ones? Perhaps they’re aspiring authors themselves? You decide.
What matters is that they are actively engaged with their quest and that you, their author, are actively engaged with them.
  
Pseudo-intelligence: Is this book a girl book or a boy book?
Few questions irk me more than that one. Memo to parents, children, Santa Claus, and all interested parties: a book does not have a gender. Whether it’s pink and sparkly and wearing a tutu, or covered with grass stains and wearing a baseball cap, a book is a book is a book, and anybody can read it, boy, girl, or chimpanzee! And, for the record, my feelings about this question have nothing—absolutely nothing—to do with my own boyhood reading choices. Little House on the Prairie? Never heard of it. Nancy Drew? More like Nancy Who? You must have me confused with somebody else. I myself was reading, er, something else. OK, fine, it was Little Women. So what…
  
BALLET 
Boy Scout

SIGNATURE PRACTICE
A famous author has to sign her name over and over. True, not every author is going to become famous, but it doesn’t hurt to practice. Use this space to perfect your autograph. You will have to learn to write fast if you want to sign hundreds of books at a time, but try not to sacrifice style for speed. A little flourish in that signature, please.

Salutation Suggestions

Famously yours,

You’re my sister? I’m sorry, I don’t remember you.

All it takes is a little luck… and a lot of talent.

What, this old book? I wrote it years ago.

I never forget the little people—

I just don’t talk to them anymore.

By the way, I also star in movies.

Signature_____________
  
Enough dillydallying. It’s time for you to get back to work. And I mean it this time!

(See how tough I can be when I want to be? Unfortunately, the toughness never works when I try it on myself.)

Start with your heroes’ names. Presumably, A and Z are their initials, but they don’t have to be. In fact, I picked the letters to suggest that the names could be anything you like—any names from A to Z. Get it? Just keep in mind that names have power; sometimes a name alone is enough to create a character.
  
So if I called you Carrot, would you magically turn into one?

Please enter your heroes’ full names here.

A____’s full name: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 

Z____’s full name: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 

Pseudo-intelligence: The name game

There are as many ways to name a character as there are to name a baby or a newly discovered insect species.
Some authors choose names that express something unique about their character. This might be a color or animal or flower, like Blue or Wolf or Iris. Another author might adopt the name of a favorite pet or the name of a hated PE teacher or the name of a certain teenage singer famous for his dirty-blond bangs. As you may remember, my Secret Series character Max-Ernest has two names because his parents couldn’t agree on just one, but there is a secret reason I gave him those two particular names (or pseudonyms, I should say, since his real names are something else entirely). Although he wants desperately to be funny, Max-Ernest can’t help being serious—that is, earnest. Maximally so. He is earnest to the max. Hence Max-Ernest.*
Other authors think names needn’t be so meaningful (or silly); instead, they should be as realistic as possible. Or realistic for the worlds they are portraying. A name that sounds realistic in Maine might not sound realistic on Mars. Isabel Robbins, for example, just doesn’t say Martian to me. Izzi, on the other hand, has major Martian potential….

If you have trouble picking a name, do what I do when I’m stuck: choose a book at random—dictionaries are great—open to the middle, and use the first name you find. Phalanger…? Phalanstery…? Phalanx…? Let’s try again. Truncheon… Trundle… Trunk… Well, you get the idea….
  
Now that you’ve named your heroes—if you don’t mind, I’ll still refer to them as A____ and Z____—I think it would be a good idea to jot down some notes about their personalities and appearance and so on.*

On here–here, you will find a very official-looking character assessment form to fill out. (In reality, there’s nothing official about it; I just made it up.) Think of the form as a longer version of one of those irritating little personality quizzes that other kids send around via e-mail. (You never send them, I’m sure.) Or else pretend you’re choosing attributes for your personal avatar in some virtual world or video game where the goal isn’t to win but rather to be as fascinating as possible.

If you get stuck, try answering the questions for yourself; how would you describe you? There’s no reason you can’t model one of your characters on yourself. Or on anybody else you know, for that matter. Just make sure you change enough details to allow for plausible deniability. (That stubborn, pointy-eared troublemaker? Why on earth would you think I based her on you? Your ears aren’t that big. True, they stick out a bit, but…) You don’t want anybody hunting you down in a murderous rage after reading your book.

Trust him on this-he speaks from experience.

Pseudo-intelligence: Is your book autobiographical?

Readers often ask authors if their characters are based on themselves. And almost always, the answer is: yes and no. Sometimes our characters represent the people we wish we were; sometimes they represent the people we fear we might be; and sometimes our characters reveal things about us we never knew. Whatever your intention, my guess is your characters will wind up resembling you in ways you don’t expect. Books can be quite scary that way.
  
OFFICIAL CHARACTER ASSESSMENT FORM

NAME:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
CODE NAME OR PSEUDONYM (a must for any self-respecting character!):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

SPECIES (real or invented):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

AGE (in human years unless otherwise specified):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
HAIR COLOR (unless bald… or furry):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
EYE COLOR (or colors, if multiple):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
UNDERWEAR COLOR (You should know your characters from top to bottom!):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
UNIFORM (cape and tights, shining armor, mascot-style bear suit):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
OTHER DISTINGUISHING PHYSICAL FEATURES (missing limbs, extra fingers, green skin, a gaseous being with no body):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

PERSONALITY (cautious or impulsive? studious or adventurous? calm or hyperactive? funny or glum?):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
HOBBIES, INTERESTS, TALENTS (reads minds, charms snakes, swallows swords):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
EATING HABITS (vegan, eats with mouth open, only eats purple foods):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
PICKS NOSE? Y/N (I just threw this one in—you don’t have to answer if you’re too squeamish.)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
CATCHPHRASE (Every hero has to have one!):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
VERBAL TIC (stutters, says um and like a lot, sing-song voice):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
THEME SONG:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
SUPERPOWER (and don’t say superstrong—that’s a cop-out):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
GREATEST DESIRE (whether publicly acknowledged or secret):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
GREATEST FEAR (clowns, mayonnaise, anything—but choose carefully; this one might come back to bite you, as it were):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
FATAL FLAW (pride, greed, jealousy, addiction to a certain type of sweets—your hero’s fatal flaw is what will bring him down, and what he will have to overcome before your story is over):
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

Terrific! Great job! I can see you’re an expert, er, characterizer! You’re on your way to writing a heckuva novel!*

In all seriousness, keep those character profiles handy, not just to help you describe your characters but also to help you plot your story. Your heroes’ personalities will help determine the choices they make and thus the course your story takes. Of course, the reverse is also true; you may find your understanding of a character changes as your story progresses. Characters are just like people; no matter how well you think you know them, they always surprise you.
  
Pseudo-assignment: Voice mail

Now that you know your heroes, write voice mail messages for them. No Hello, you have reached so-and-so.… Try to be more creative. Are your heroes the type of people to use a song as a greeting? Or are they more likely to greet callers with a recording of a barking dog? Maybe they don’t use phones at all but rather communicate through owl or carrier pigeon. Mental telepathy? (What would telepathic voice mail sound like?) Don’t forget to include a few voice mail messages or texts that your heroes are likely to receive in return. Who are your heroes’ friends? What kinds of things are going on in your heroes’ lives that might appear in phone messages? For extra credit, record one of your heroes’ fictional greetings on your own voice mail and confuse all the real people who call you.
  
RANDOM WRITING TIP: BRAINSTORMS

Never let yourself get caught unprepared in a brainstorm.
Many writers will tell you always to carry a notepad and pen so that you can jot down any and all ideas that happen to fall from the sky. Myself, I only carry a pen. I find that the palm of my hand is a much better writing surface than a notepad when it’s raining.
  
Help, It's raining brains!

CHAPTER FOUR
AKA Chapter 1

So, my dear author, getting back to your book, how do you think you should begin your first chapter? The next day seems like the most natural place to start, does it not?

Unless you have a better idea, you should probably begin with A____ and/or Z____ waking up.

What about waking me up? All this typing is making me tired.

Use this moment to establish the personalities that you so carefully analyzed earlier. What do their bedrooms look like? Do they jump out of bed or linger under the covers? Do they pick up rumpled clothes from the floor or take a neatly folded shirt out of a drawer? How do they brush their teeth? Or don’t they? Do they have any funny or weird morning rituals they wouldn’t want anybody to see? Remember, you want your reader to love your heroes enough to spend an entire book with them—but that doesn’t mean your reader has to like everything about them.

WRITE THIS:

Describe A____ or Z____ or both as they wake up in the morning. As you write, to maintain dramatic tension, make reference to the frightening sounds Z____ heard the previous night.* Do A____ and Z____ wake up thinking about all the horrible things that might have happened? If you need more space, attach an extra page. Or just write over my words. I don’t need them. And don’t forget to title your chapter—whether at the beginning or the end.**

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 1

INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 

In which A____ and Z____ wake up and demonstrate winning character traits that make your reader want to read a whole book about them.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
  
Good. Now we know that your heroes didn’t die overnight—always an important fact to establish. But did their neighbor die overnight? That’s the question your readers will be—

Oh, no. I just had a terrible thought. Before we get to all that fun mystery stuff inside I.B.’s house, we have some ugly writing business to attend to:
PARENTS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!*
There’s no way around it: they have to be part of this chapter.

You know what they say: Parents—can’t live with ’em, can’t live without ’em. Parents, as any writer of books for young people will tell you, are the worst. They’re always getting in the way, making your heroes eat breakfast or do their homework or wash dishes—anything to keep them from going off on an adventure. Parents can stop a good book in its tracks. In that sense, a book is much like life.

The difference is: in a book you can dispatch your parents however you please. Writing is very convenient that way.

Have you ever noticed how many orphans there are in children’s books and movies? Oliver Twist. Anne of Green Gables. James and the Giant Peach. Harry Potter. The list, as they say, goes on. That’s not because we authors have some deep desire to kill off our parents; it’s because we’re trying to remove them from the action, and death is the most expedient way.*
So, how do you want to get rid of your parents? Sorry, I mean, your heroes’ parents. (I’m sure you want to keep any real parent you happen to have!) If they’re not home when A____ and Z____ wake up, your reader needs to know why.

CHECK ALL THOSE THAT APPLY:
  
 They died in their sleep.
 They were buried in an avalanche.
 They fell through a wormhole.
 They were lost at sea.
 They’re currently floating in outer space.
 They’re trapped in a parallel universe.
 They’re geologists who work year-round in a subterranean laboratory studying the earth’s fiery-hot core.
 Actually, they are alive and well. It’s just that they are oblivious, head-in-the-clouds types. They don’t notice when the toast is burning, let alone a child.
 Other, more peculiar reason for parents’ nonappearance:

(One thing we know for sure: your heroes’ parents are not good responsible healthy living parents who are very concerned with their kids’ welfare. That would never work in a book.)

Phew. Now that’s taken care of.

Bye, Mom!

Bye, Dad!
  
Pseudo-intelligence: Beware a bad back!

Once you’ve picked your preferred method of parental execution, how do you impart that gruesome information—or backstory, as we call it in the writing trade—to your reader? Any number of ways. A____ and Z____ could bring up the memory of a parent in dialogue. There could be photos of their parents in their bedrooms or in the kitchen. A____ or Z____ could have a morbid fear of whatever it was that killed their parents. (Perhaps their parents choked on peanut butter, and A____ and Z____ have never been able to hear the words peanut butter, much less eat the dread spread since?) Or you could simply tell your reader what happened; sometimes the direct approach is best. One word of warning: backstory is very boring if it’s not written properly. A bad backstory can stab your story right in the back. My advice: write your backstory like your front story—i.e., like it’s taking place in the present. When in doubt, erase your backstory altogether—even if it means leaving your book as backless as a hospital gown. On second thought…
  
  
PROCRASTINATION PAGE

OPEN REFRIGERATOR.

FIND NOTHING THAT YOU WANT TO EAT.

CLOSE REFRIGERATOR.

REPEAT.

(Remember, we writers are working all the time, no matter what it may seem like we’re doing.)
  
CHAPTER FIVE

Location: The Author’s House

Let’s get back to the question of what happened the night before. What exactly did Z____ hear? Who laughed? Who cried? What made that thud? Yes, it could turn out that he imagined the whole thing, but I’d prefer that we come up with a better explanation. I don’t know about you, but I’ve always hated the old it-was-all-just-a-dream scenario.

Since I’m in such a good mood, I’ll start the second chapter for you. (It must be the way you got rid of your parents so handily—I mean your heroes’ parents, your heroes’ parents!) If I miss a few words here or there, please fill in the blanks.

The Case of the Missing Author

Chapter 2
INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  

In which A____ and Z____ wonder about what happened in the author’s house the night before.

With their parents gone, it was A____’s responsibility to bring in the newspaper and the mail. After finishing her

 whole-grain cereal
 sausage-and-pancakes breakfast pockets
 cold leftover pizza
 homework
 farm chores
 morning calisthenics
 game of pinochle

she stepped out onto their front porch.

The house across the street was quiet. She shivered, looking at it. Had she been too quick to dismiss her brother’s concerns the night before, she wondered. What if something terrible had happened to their neighbor?  

Pushing away her grim thoughts, she opened the mailbox; on top of a pile of junk mail was a bulging manila envelope. When she saw the name on the envelope, she wrinkled her face in confusion. Why on earth would an envelope addressed to him land in their mailbox? She looked at the address under the name—and gasped in surprise.

“----------!”

So that was who was living across the street!

“It could be a joke,” said Z____ a moment later. “Maybe somebody just calls him that because he’s so secretive or something.”

“Did you look at the return address? It’s from his publishers—Little Clown.”

Z____ stared at the envelope on the table. It just didn’t seem possible that their mystery neighbor was actually I.B. Anonymous, his favorite author in the—

Oh, really? His favorite?
Why not? Fine, we'll let the reader choose-

It just didn’t seem possible that their mystery neighbor was actually I.B. Anonymous, his 

favorite
 least favorite

author in the world.

“I thought he was living in the jungle or Greenland or someplace,” Z____ muttered.

“Yeah, and he also says he has a talking rabbit assistant who types his books for him!” said his sister. “That’s all pretend. Duh.”

I'll tell you what's pretend-the idea that you write your books yourself!
Just keep typing.

“You don’t know anything about him,” said Z____.

“I’m the one who gave you his books!”

Z____ turned over the envelope. “We have to open this. That’s the only way to know for sure it’s him.”

A____ looked at her brother, aghast.

“It came to our house, didn’t it? Besides, look at the way it’s taped. We can tape it right back up. He’ll never know,” said Z____. “C’mon, admit it, you’re curious.”

“That doesn’t matter; it’s not ours. That’s like… stealing.” “Never mind, you’re right; we should just put it in his mailbox.”

“Well, we don’t have to put it in his mailbox,” said his sister slyly. “We could knock on the door. That’s what most people would do, isn’t it?”

Z____ grinned. “Yeah, you’re right, it’s more polite. And if we accidentally see inside his house, well, that’s not our fault…. Besides,” he added, his expression growing serious, “we should probably make sure he’s OK.”

A____ nodded. That was what she’d been thinking.

Now, if this were my book, I might try to draw out the suspense at this point. Rather than letting them immediately knock on I.B.’s door, for example, I might throw in some more background information about A____ or Z____. Or I might have somebody call on the phone to say one of them had won a big prize or that their school had burned down or that they had missed a piano lesson.

Or I might just linger on the description of I.B.’s house as A____ and Z____ slowly walk toward it. Like this:

From the outside, I.B. Anonymous’s house looked—

What am I doing? You’re the writer. What does I.B.’s house look like? You tell me.

Think about it: he’s a secretive author. He wouldn’t want his house to call too much attention to itself. For that reason, the house might look like every other house on the block. Anonymous, in other words, like I.B. himself. But what if his house is the only house on his side of the street; how could he make his house blend in then? Is it camouflaged? Protected with an invisibility shield?*

Perhaps there’s something else about I.B. you want to convey in your description. His eccentricity, for example. (Maybe the house is painted royal blue? The front door is on the roof? The house is upside down?) Or his absentmindedness. (The yard is overgrown? He parks his car in the living room?) Or his paranoia. (Maybe there are telescopes on the roof? Bulletproof glass? Multiple alarm systems?)

Pseudo-assignment: Instructions

Invent a strange new device—something you might find on an alien planet, for instance. Write instructions for using the device without ever giving away exactly what the device is used for. Alternatively, think of a very familiar item—for example, a peanut butter and jelly sandwich—and write operating instructions for an alien to read. (Remember, the alien may never have eaten anything before, let alone a sandwich.) Show instructions to your friends and make them guess what the instructions refer to. If you have no friends, then give the instructions straight to an alien.

WRITE THIS:

In the space below, please describe I.B.’s house.
  
What about his stinginess with his employees? You know, like the fact that there are no carrots anywhere in the house? Quiet, rabbit!

Draw it, too. Even if your drawing isn’t very good (my drawings never are), it might help you visualize what you’re writing about.


The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 2 (cont.)

In which I.B.’s house is first described.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   

Do you feel like you got I.B.’s house right? (I certainly hope you didn’t—I, I mean, he has enough trouble staying hidden as it is!) In any event, let’s move on. Your reader has waited long enough. It’s time to look inside.

Z____ knocked on the door, his heart racing.

There was no response from inside. But as he knocked a second time, the door opened ______ ly.* A____ and Z____ held their breath, waiting to see who opened the door—I.B. or his murderer or some other, unknown force.

If you think the door opened by magic—whether by mechanical illusion or real magic—you can add a sentence here saying so. Of course, the other possibility is that the door wasn’t completely closed and the force of Z____’s knock opened it.

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

“Hello?”
When nobody answered, they stepped inside.

Pseudo-assignment: Snoop training

No, I do not recommend that you walk into your neighbor’s house and snoop around uninvited (although I admit it might prove inspiring for a budding writer’s imagination). As an alternative, try snooping around your own home, pretending you’re a first-time visitor. What things stand out? What can you conclude about the people who live there? Write a list of observations and hypotheses based strictly on what you see, not on what you already know. And if your brother gets mad at you for looking in his closet, tell him you had no choice; P.B. made you do it. It’s all part of your training as a writer.

CHAPTER SIX

Location (Continued):On the Inside

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 3

INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 

Having read all of I.B.’s books, A____ and Z____ had been expecting the inside of I.B.’s house to look like a _____, but instead it looked like a ______.

Nothing suggested that a tragedy had occurred the night before. More than a few ______brand chocolate bar wrappers littered the floor, but they looked as if I.B. had just dropped them there, not like they’d fallen in a fight.*
“What a slob!” whispered A____.

Well at least that part is true!
That's not the point. I'm trying to show them how a writer lays clues...
Clues that you never clean up?

Aside from the ______ brand chocolate bar wrappers, the one thing Z____ recognized from I.B.’s books was an old, fraying black top hat, perched on top of a bureau. “Hey, it’s Italo’s hat! Or it’s just how he described Italo’s hat, anyway.” 

If his books were to be believed, I.B. had inherited his top hat from the old magician Italo Barbero, leader of the secret organization known as the Cester Society.

In his Series of Secrets, I.B. wrote about himself in the character of middle school student Jon-Thomas, an aspiring magician (as well as aspiring comedian). Together with his best friend, Tess, Jon-Thomas joins the Cester Society and comes to think of Italo as a sort of father figure. At the end of I.B.’s series, Italo disappears, leaving only his hat for his young friends to find—a conclusion both Z____ and A____ had found frustrating, to say the least.

Tess? Jon-Thomas? Italo Barbero? I think you mean Cass, Max-Ernest, and Pietro Bergam-
Shhh!!! Pseudonyms only, remember?
But those names already were pseudonyms...
You can never be too careful.

Z____ placed the manila envelope on the bureau and glanced inside the top hat, half-expecting to find a rabbit, but the hat was empty.

Under the couch, I.B.’s gray cat
Tiger-7
Snowball-2/3
Boots-1
Muffin-1
Cocoa-1
Cacao-2
(Other)_____________________


crouched, his hair bristling on his back. When A____ reached to pet him, the cat slunk out of sight.

Strange, A____ thought; when she’d met him on the street, the cat hadn’t been especially affectionate—how many cats are?—but at least he had permitted her to touch him.

“When did he get so scared of me?” she whispered to her brother.

Z replied:

   1. “What am I, psychic?”

   2. “Have you looked in the mirror lately?”

   3. “I don’t know, it’s kinda weird.”

   4. “Maybe he figured out you’re part dog.”

   5. “_______________________________________________.”
  
Pseudo-intelligence: A dialogue about dialogue

Scene: A young author kneels by the sickbed of his aged master, Pseudonymous Bosch.

Young author: Oh, wise master, please tell me the secret before you depart from this life…

P.B.: The Secret?

Young author: Yes, the secret of good dialogue.

P.B.: Oh, that secret. Give me a pen, I’ll write it down—

Young author: Because it’s so secret you can’t say it out loud…

P.B.: No, because it’s too long and boring—wouldn’t be good dialogue.

When you write dialogue for a novel, it’s useful to pretend you’re writing dialogue for a play. In a play, there is almost nothing but dialogue; dialogue does all the work. Playwrights rely on a character’s lines not only to establish a character’s personality but also to tell a story. In a novel, you should try to hold yourself to the same standard. After you’ve written a few lines of dialogue, read them aloud. If a line doesn’t help define your character or advance your story, cut the line. If a line contains necessary information but doesn’t sound like real conversation, put it in prose form. Notice how I made the aged P.B. write the “secret of good dialogue” on paper? I tried to write the secret in dialogue form, but it was too clunky. Hence this clunky paragraph, which I will now exit as fast as possible.
  
Cautiously, they began to explore the rest of the house, starting with the kitchen.

“If he knew he was going away, he could have at least done the dishes,” said A____, looking at the sink.

“He wouldn’t have known he was going away if he was kidnapped by the Evening Sun,” said Z____ darkly, referring to the villainous organization that haunted the Cester Society throughout I.B.’s Series of Secrets.

“The Evening Sun? First of all, I keep telling you, his books are just books. They’re not real,” said A____. “Second of all, I don’t see any white gloves lying around, do you?”

“Exactly. They never take off their gloves.”

“So you’re saying the fact that they didn’t leave gloves proves that they were here? That makes no sense.”

There was an open doorway at the end of the hall. I.B.’s office. They were drawn to it like ______ to a ______.

Most of the room was piled high with more ______ brand chocolate bar wrappers and half-eaten pieces of ______. But, curiously, the middle of the room was empty. It was as if some centrifugal force had spun all of I.B.’s belongings away. Except for a single leather notebook that lay on the floor in the exact center of the room.

A handwritten note was clipped to the notebook. “Look—it’s for us!” cried Z____, holding up the note to show his sister. “How did he know we were going to be here?”

Dear A____ and Z____,

Welcome! I’ve been inspecting you. Here’s my new book for you to expect.

By the way, can you feed the cat?

I may be gone awhile….

Secretly, I.B.

A____ frowned. “Expect? I think he flipped the words. He must have meant inspect—you know, like, I’ve been expecting you. Here’s my new book to inspect.”

“You’re missing the point—it’s his new book and it’s not even published yet! You know how many kids would kill to get their hands on this?!”

“Well, I hope they wouldn’t kill him—”

“I didn’t mean it that way.”

Z____ eagerly opened the notebook, but as soon as he started flipping through the pages, his face fell.

“What—what’s wrong?” asked A____.

Z____ turned the pages toward his sister. The notebook was blank. “Why did he leave it for us if it’s not even written?”

A____ shrugged. “I guess he meant expect after all. There’s no book yet to inspect.” “Maybe it’s written in invisible ink?”

Z____ performed a few quick tests, but he couldn’t find evidence of any hidden writing anywhere in the notebook.*

He was about to toss the notebook aside when A____ pointed to a page near the front. “Hey, what’s that say?”

There were four names written faintly on it—not in invisible ink, just old-fashioned number two pencil.

Horatio
Eleanor
Leopold
Penelope

“Do you think he was trying to pick names for his characters?” asked A____.

“No, look at the first initials,” said Z____, growing excited again. “It’s code, just like in his first book! H – E – L – P. HELP.”

“Wait, you think that’s a message for us?” asked A____.

A____ and Z____ looked at each other.

I.B. was in trouble. He wanted their help.

I’m sure you’re familiar with the term cliffhanger, even if you’ve never hung off a cliff yourself. It refers to a single drip of mucus that is hanging precipitously from a nostril, refusing to drop to the ground. It also refers to a moment in a story, usually a dramatic and exciting moment, when the story’s author stops the action in order to prolong suspense.

Whenever possible, it is wise to end a chapter on a cliffhanger. It keeps your reader hungry for more. (For more story, not more mucus—don’t be disgusting!) I advise just such a chapter break now.

 PROCRASTINATION PAGE 

DEVELOP AN ITCH ON A HARD-TO-REACH SPOT ON YOUR BACK.

GO SLOWLY CRAZY TRYING TO SCRATCH IT.

CHAPTER SEVEN

Plot… Plot… Plot

Help!
No, really, I mean it—HELP! I can’t get this chocolate bar unwrapped—my fingernails are too short. Oh, there we go… never mind… hmmghf… not bad…

Now, where was I? Oh, yes—help. A plea for help often represents a turning point in a story, or more precisely a point of no return. Heroes who refuse the plea live to regret the choice, forever haunted by the repercussions of their cowardice. Heroes who respond to the plea find themselves caught in treacherous situations, seemingly with no way out.
  
In other words, if you hear someone cry for help, you should... cry for help.

On that optimistic note, how are your heroes going to react to the plea in I.B.’s notebook?

That is to say, how are you going to react as the author of The Case of the Missing Author?

Sure, the answer might be: your heroes ignore the plea and go home. But that wouldn’t make for a very dramatic story, would it? (Unless, perhaps, you were planning on having them murdered that night in their sleep? A double murder would be very dramatic indeed.) Let’s assume, for the sake of argument, that A____ and Z____ are good-hearted young people who are distressed by I.B.’s message. They may also feel some guilt about not having tried to help the imperiled author the night before. For whatever reason, they want to help him now.

Take it from me, helping an author is always a mistake!

So, my dear reader-turned-writer, what do they do to help I.B.? What happens next?

Well…?

I’m waiting.

Tap… tap… tap…

I’m sorry, I fell asleep. What did you say?

Now you want help? If you’re unwrapping a chocolate bar, I would be glad to assist. I know I said my nails were short, but that’s only a minor—

Oh, you mean help with your book. Again? This is getting ridiculous. I’m beginning to think it might have been easier to write this book myself!

What can I do that will enable me to wash my hands of The Case of the Missing Author once and for all?

Let me think. From what I can tell, what you need the most help with is…

PLOT

Plot… plot… plot…

Hear that?

It is the sound of ink dropping from a pen as a writer struggles to come up with a—you know what comes next—plot.

Few words are scarier to a writer than the p-word. (Is it an accident that a square of earth where a dead author is buried is called a plot? I think not.*) And yet, like many scary things— monsters under the bed, ghosts in the closet, politicians on TV—plot turns out not to have much substance when you look at it up close.

See—
  
PLOT

Oh, who am I kidding? The only thing that scares me as much as plot is an outline—which makes an outline of the word plot (see above) the scariest thing of all!

Put simply, plot is structure. Plot is beginning, middle, and end—and how you get from one to the other to the other. Plot is what happens next. Plot is the hardest part.

What are the rules for plotting a novel?

I am tempted to answer that there are none. As a rule, I’m against rules about writing. But I am also against boring writing. Without a good plot your story will not only be shapeless, it will be dull.

Authors and critics of various stripes have tried for centuries to boil down the elements of a good plot. Some people break up stories into three or four or more “acts” (as in a play). Others describe the five “stages” of a plot or the eight “points” that make a story arc. To convey their theories, they present plot diagrams and timelines. Plot pyramids. Even plot snowflakes (really!).

My contribution to this plot stew follows. Think of it as a more elaborate mise en place than I offered earlier. A mise en plot, perhaps? No, forget the cooking metaphors. Let’s switch to something more destination-oriented: a plot map. Directions for that crazy road trip you’re taking your reader on. A book, after all, should be like a family vacation, with plenty of sightseeing, together time, and rest—in other words, flat tires, fighting, and unmitigated disaster.

PLOT MAP

VISIT

Trip Preview: TEASER
1
Ride the roaring rapids!
Look inside the mouth of a crocodile!
See a ten-foot-tall ball of yarn!
A glossy brochure advertising the incredible trip ahead...

PACKING UP: Introduction of characters and world
2
When you see all your belongings on the floor. Don't forget to bring clean underwear!

DEPARTURE: INCITING INCIDENT
3
What? They discovered gold in the Grand Canyon after all these years! Let's go-now!

GETTING THERE IS HALF THE FUN! The Quest
4
The main part of your road trip-when everything that can go wrong does. Flat tire...broken cell phone...parents threatening divorce...lost baby brother...Bad Luck? Are you kidding? This is the stuff that stories are made of. As writers, we call it "conflict".

DESTINATION REACHED: The Climax
5
Grand Canyon
Hooray, you finally reached the Grand Canyon! Only it's so foggy that you can't see anything, and your father is about to drive over the edge. Can you stop the car even though you're afraid of heights and you've only discovered your superpowers...?

The Road Home
6
Falling Rocks
So your car was smashed and the only gold you found was the fool's kind. At least you got to see the Grand Canyon-the bottom of it. And now you get to walk hundreds of miles back home! What a lesson you've learned. (Wait-what was the lesson again?)

Back Home: The Denouement
7
There's no place like home. Or is there? By the time you go to bed, you're already feeling antsy. When's the next trip?

Well, there you have it: a map to help you plot the course of your writing journey. Personally, I have a lot of trouble reading maps. As for directions, I’m one of those infuriating people who refuse, on principle, to ask for them. As a result, I rarely get anywhere. You undoubtedly are much more sensible than I am, and have a much better sense of direction. With any luck, my plot map will lead you straight to your story—plus or minus a few detours, of course.

In a sense, plot is the discovery of story. Or the story of the discovery of story.

And what do you call a story about discovering a story? The same thing you call a plot about uncovering a plot.

A mystery.

Which takes us right back to The Case of the Missing Author.

CHAPTER EIGHT
Mysteries: Gumshoes

Now you have officially departed on your authorial road trip. Your inciting incident is in place: the author is missing and he needs your heroes’ help. It’s time for their quest to begin in earnest. It’s time for them to set about finding him.

In a classic mystery, a whodunit, a detective has to identify the villain. In other words, he has to figure out who has committed a crime. Which involves figuring out when, where, how, and why the crime was committed. Which is to say, a detective’s job is to figure out the story of the crime.

How does he do this? He reads the evidence, of course.

Your book is no different.

In order to find I.B., your heroes will have to play detective, which means examining evidence, looking for clues, and coming to some sort of hypothesis about what happened. (It can also mean donning a trench coat, sunglasses, and fedora, then knocking on strangers’ doors and demanding a handout—but that’s Halloween, this is a book.)

Put yourself in their shoes. Or perhaps I should say in their gumshoes.* What is the first step A____ and Z____ would take after the initial shock of seeing the help message? What evidence would they try to read?

Would they dig around I.B.’s yard for a buried body? Listen to his phone messages? Interrogate his cat?
  
Yes, would you please? I hate that cat!

My guess is that the evidence A____ and Z____ would first try to read is the most readable evidence at hand: I.B.’s mail. Remember the manila envelope, the one from I.B.’s publishers that landed seemingly by accident in their mailbox? Now they have an excuse to open it, do they not? I.B.’s life may be at stake, Z____ would likely say. This is no time to worry about the morality of opening somebody else’s mail.

Well, what would you say? More to the point, what would you write? If you think opening I.B.’s mail is so morally reprehensible that you can’t imagine your characters doing it no matter what the circumstances, then I commend you—but you’re the wrong person to write this book.* Put this book down now and go write something else. If, on the other hand, you’re dying to know what’s inside the envelope, turn the page:
  
Pseudo-assignment: Get a clue

Knowing how and where to lay clues is a key skill for any mystery writer (and also for criminals who want to throw their pursuers off the scent). Prove your mystery-writing mettle by matching the clue to the crime:

CLUE: 
	POWDERED-SUGAR MUST ACHE
	BROWN FINGERPRINTS
	UNREAD BOOK LYING ON THE FLOOR
	BROWN TEETH

CRIME:
	BORING WRITING
	POOR ORAL HYGIENE
	STOLEN CHOCOLATE BAR
	MISSING DOUGHNUT
	  
The Case of the Missing Author

Chapter 4

INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
  
In which A____ and Z____ pore through their neighbor’s private mail.

Z____ dumped the contents of the envelope unceremoniously onto the floor.

It was fan mail—if you could call a barrage of questions, demands, and conspiracy theories fan mail. Many of the letters adopted I.B.’s notoriously “snarky” tone.* Some were downright hostile.
  
Dear I.B.,

What is your real name? If you tell me, I'll give you a hundred pounds of chocolate. If you don't tell me, I'll send you a hundred jars of mayonnaise.

Signed,
I won't tell if you don't

I.B.
What is the Secret?
I won't tell anyone with white gloves, I swear. -Fingers crossed

I.B. 
If you don't want anybody to read your books, why do you write them? That doesn't make any sense. 
-Confused Reader

I.B.
Is the Cester Society real? How do I join?
P.S. I figured out why it's called Cester-it's an anagram for Secret. See, now you have to let me in!

Dear Mr. Anonymous,
I have to write a book report on your book, but I can't find any information about you, and the report is due tomorrow!
Please can you just answer these questions: Are you a man or a woman? Where were you born? Do you have any pets? What is your book about? What is your favorite color? Please write back soon!!! I mean it!

Dear I.B.-Is it just a coincidence that you have the same initials as the magician Italo Barbero, or are you the same person? 
Sincerely,
Xxxxxxx
(See, two can play at that game!)

I.B. I know who you are... Jon Thomas! Evidence: you both like chocolate. You both like puzzles. And you both can't keep a secret! If you don't write back, Im going to tell everyone.

Dear I.B.-The Evening Sun is watching you. Mwahaha.
Evilly yours,
Madame Mal and Doctor Y
P.S. -Just kidding. I'm not really part of the Evening Sun. Or am I...? *Cue scary music* Dum da da dum... dum...

I.B.- I want to be a writer. What advice do you have? 

Dude, I hate to tell you, but I caught a typo in your book. Too late to fix it. Just thought you should know. Later.

Dear IB:
I just finished your last book and I can't believe you left us like that! What is the secret?! Where did Italo go?!! What happend to Tess and Jon-Thomas?!!! Are you still friends with Tess??!!! Seriously, please please write more. I'm begging you. *Holds chocolate in front of nose.*
Sincerely,
Your devasted and forlorn reader

Dear I.B.,
These are the things I hate the most about your books.
- - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - 

One letter stuck out because it wasn’t handwritten or typed like the others; it was composed with letters and pictures cut out of magazines and newspapers. It looked like a ransom note or a flyer for a rock band.

2 ib u stink, 5 books waiting for the secret and that's all i get? What the heck was that?! u better write another book or else I'll send u 2 u know where. i'm watching u!
frum yr x-fan
  
Hmm. Ominous letter, is it not? As detectives, A____ and Z____ could hardly avoid asking some scary questions about it.

Their thinking might go something like this:

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 4 (cont.)

“See this? It’s like a picture code,” said Z____, holding the last letter. “That’s X-fan, like ex-fan of I.B.’s books. Like he used to be a fan, but he isn’t anymore.”

“Yeah, I get it,” said A____, looking over her brother’s shoulder. “It’s not that subtle.” “He sounds pretty mad.”

“If it’s a he. Could be a she,” A____ pointed out. “Can’t tell by the handwriting—’cause there isn’t any.”

“Either way. They’re pretty mad….”

“I know, but I mean, come on, it’s just a book!” A____ shook her head. “So they didn’t like the ending, so what? I can’t believe they got so upset about it.”

“I can….” muttered Z____, thinking about his own equally enraging experience reading the end of the Series of Secrets. “Hey, what if this guy came in here and saw the same thing we saw?”

“What? All the ______ wrappers?”

“No, the empty notebook.”

“And then they got even madder because there was no sixth book?” Z____ nodded.

“Right. And then…” A____ trailed off.

They stared at each other, both contemplating the horrible possibilities.

Could the X-fan have kidnapped I.B.? Or worse?

OK, author, it seems A____ and Z____ now have their first suspect: the X-fan. What do they do next?

I expect any detectives worth their salt would inspect the suspect’s letter for clues about its writer. Where might this prospective villain be? What exactly is he or she trying to say? Who is the X-fan? Perhaps A____ and Z____ try to determine which magazines or newspapers were cut up to make the letter?

WRITE THIS:

Take a stab at writing this moment of epistolary sleuthing. You can start however you like, but you should end this section by having your heroes discover a hidden message in the letter. Don’t worry, there is a hidden message for them to find. (I should know—I left it there.) Of course, you must find it first in order to write about it. Hint: what they fear most is that a capital crime has occurred.

Here’s the letter again for your reference:
  
2 ib u stink, 5 books waiting for the secret and that's all i get? What the heck was that?! u better write another book or else I'll send u 2 u know where. i'm watching u!
frum yr x-fan

The Case of the Missing Author

In which the young detectives discover a hidden message in the X-fan’s letter.
  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

How did that go? Did you—or rather did your heroes—discover the hidden message?

Together, the capital letters in the X-fan’s letter spell OTHER SIDE, correct?

You better write another book or else I’ll send you to you know where.

Does you know where mean the Other Side? Very likely. After discovering the hidden message, A____ and Z____ must fear that the author of the letter—the X-fan—has sent I.B. to the Other Side.

But what is the Other Side?

Often, the phrase the other side refers to the afterlife, the side of the dead. And your heroes will have to consider the grisly possibility that I.B. has been killed. But does the phrase remind you of anything else?

I’m guessing that it will remind A____ and Z____ of something very specific. As readers of I.B.’s books, they will almost certainly remember that the Other Side is where the old magician Italo disappeared to at the end of I.B.’s last book.

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 4 (cont.)

“OK, let’s say I.B. has been kidnapped and is being held on the Other Side,” said A____. “The question is, other side of what?”

“I think you mean what Other Side,” said Z____. “It’s not necessarily the other side of anything. On the other hand, maybe it’s the other side of everything.”

“What are you talking about?”

“Remember the end of I.B.’s last book? The Other Side is where Italo disappeared to.”

A____ stared. “So are you saying that the Other Side is real? It’s a place? I find that very hard to believe.”

“I do, too, but I know this much—if the Other Side is real, it’s where we’re going to find I.B.”

A____ nodded slowly. The Other Side was the only clue they had. They might as well try to find it.

This, then, is your heroes’ mission: to find the Other Side and rescue the missing author.

Your mission? The very same.

DEPARTMENT OF PITFALLS: THE MURKY MIDDLE

No matter how prepared I think I am, I always get stuck near the middle of a book. Usually, it’s because I have no idea where my book is going. Even if I know how the book is supposed to end, I don’t know how to get there. I spend weeks and weeks, sometimes months and months, flailing around, trying to see my way out of the murky middle. You’d think that after writing five books, I might have developed a technique for avoiding this terrible fate. And, guess what, I have. I’m throwing you into the murk instead. Ready?

No, of course you aren’t. See next page.
  
PROCRASTINATION PAGE
TAKE THREE MONTHS OFF.

TELL EVERYONE YOU NEED TO “RECHARGE.”

CREATIVITY REQUIRES REST.

CHAPTER NINE

Genre as Pizza

Next up: how will your heroes find the Other Side?

I’ll admit, the Other Side appears to be a somewhat open-ended idea.* Almost as open-ended as fiction itself. There are countless other sides. The other side of the road, of course, but also the other side of the tracks. The other side of the wall. The other side of the coin. The other side of the moon. The other side of a record album. (Also called the B-side; ask your grandparents.) The other side in an argument about the meaning of the other side. The other side of a story.

Each of these other sides could be the basis of a story of its own.

Other other sides:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

But what is the other side in your book? The Other Side. No other other-side matters now. I suppose the Other Side could be the other side of your book. As in the back cover. Or even the other side of this page. But I’m guessing you’ll want the Other Side to be a place—a place where your heroes can look for the missing author and where they can find… well, that’s up to you.

Here’s the good news: you get to decide what the Other Side is.

Here’s the bad news: you have to decide what the Other Side is.

Writing fiction is like that. The best thing about it is that you get to make it up. The worst thing about it is that YOU HAVE TO.

So how do you go about deciding what your Other Side is going to be? Or what it is going to be the other side of—if indeed it is the other side of something.
Perhaps you have a wholly original concept of the Other Side in your head. If not, here’s another side from which to look at the question of the Other Side….

GENRE

In French, genre means “kind or sort or type.” As in, what kind or sort or type of other side would you like your Other Side to be?

Also as in, what kind of person would use a pretentious word like that?
  
As a literary term, the word has a more particular meaning: a genre is a category of literary works—often but not always novels—defined by form, style, or subject matter. If that sounds vague, well, that’s because it is vague (and also because the dictionary on my desk isn’t very good). Nevertheless, every genre has its own rules and conventions; and while I would never insist that you follow them, I’m sure you’ll agree that it’s best to know the rules before you break them. Otherwise, you don’t get the satisfaction of knowing you’ve done something wrong.

Think of a literary genre as a type of food. Pizza can be prepared in a myriad of ways, but it’s usually round and cheesy and tomato-y and eaten in slices, right? Yes, there are square pizzas and cheeseless pizzas and white pizzas, but those are the exceptions. At a certain point—say, when they start putting barbeque chicken and pineapple on top—a pizza ceases to be a pizza.

(Pineapple pizza is your favorite? Then, please, take my slice.)
  
Which genre does your book belong to? Well, that’s no mystery; as we’ve already established, it belongs to the mystery genre. But let’s muddy the genre waters a little bit. (As if the murky middle weren’t murky enough!) Yes, this book is a mystery, but it is not only a mystery. Not every book fits comfortably into a single genre; many books combine several genres or don’t seem to fit into any at all. I consider my own books to be a unique combination of the true-crime and self-help genres. (They certainly don’t help you!) Before A____ and Z____ start hunting for additional clues, I want you to choose a secondary genre for your book. The genre you choose will help determine what your Other Side is like and will influence the way you write the rest of your book.

I’m giving you a choice of three genres:*

1. Classic crime, also known as noir
  
2. Fantasy

3. Gothic horror

More Genres

In case you’re foolish enough to try reading—or writing—another book after this one, here are some other genres you might choose from.

Western (people on horses, gunfights, a lot of cactus)

Science fiction (robots, aliens, dystopian universes where parents are replaced by video screens—wait, is that dystopian or utopian?)

Romance (the mushy stuff—I’d rather not talk about it)

Sports (I’ve never read any myself, but I’m told there are actually novels about people chasing balls around a field.)

Graphic novels and manga (at last, a comic book… book!)

Literary (any book your language arts teacher wants you to read)

Coming-of-age (not sure what this means—it never happened to me)

Other genres:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
  
Crime Suspense
Gothic Fright!
Sci-Fi!

Write This Book—The Multiplayer Version

If more than one person is reading, or I should say writing, this book at once, then each reader/writer should pick a different genre—and write his or her version of the book accordingly. Whoever gets to the end first… gets to the end first!
  
NOIR: HARD-BOILED CRIME
  
He looked about as inconspicuous as a tarantula on a slice of angel food.
—RAYMOND CHANDLER

I’ve been as bad an influence on American literature as anyone I can think of.
—DASHIELL HAMMETT*

Ever murdered your husband? Robbed a bank? Sold shares in an imaginary company to an innocent old lady?
No? Well, chances are you know a little bit about crime even if you’re not a criminal. Let me put that another way. Chances are you know a little bit about crime novels even if you’ve never read one. Classic crime novels like those by Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett have influenced not only many novels that have come since but also many films and television shows—and no doubt more than a few criminals as well.

These “hard-boiled” mysteries are most often written in first person through the eyes of a private eye—that is, from the perspective of a detective. The detective is usually an antihero—a cynical tough guy, at least in appearance, who pretends not to care about the people around him. He speaks gruffly, with humorous understatement. A hunter of murderers, the noir detective may not be a killer himself, but he delivers deadly one-liners.

You need not write your book in first person to adopt this kind of voice, however—What do I mean? Can I show you?

Heh. I know what you’re up to—you’re trying to get me to write this book for you again. You can’t fool me.

No? It’s just that you’re sure I’ll do such a good job?

What can I say? I know I’m being played, but flattery will get you everywhere. Let’s go back to The Case of the Missing Author and give it a bit of a noir spin.

Pseudo-intelligence:

A perspective on perspective

No doubt you’ve heard the word perspective before. Parents often tell their children that they should have more perspective. What the parent means is that whatever tragic event has occurred in your life—a bad haircut, say—really isn’t so tragic. Your hair will grow back—and besides, children are starving in Africa. It goes without saying that this so-called long view is infuriating for someone whose hair is cut too short. Sure, your hair might grow back one day, but will it grow back before school starts next week?

What does this have to do with writing? Everything, my dear innocent young person, everything. In real life, you may not want to enter your parent’s head any more than your parent wants to enter yours. As a writer, on the other hand, you are continually called upon to see events from other people’s perspectives—that is to say, from the perspectives of all your characters. And if you are writing from your own perspective, it behooves you all the more to consider somebody else’s perspective. That way you can anticipate your critics and arm yourself against them.
  
For writers, perspective—also known as point of view—has an additional, more precise meaning. Your perspective is the “person” in which you are writing. As you may already know from your language arts class, in third person, the subject is he, she, or it, and the narrator takes little or no part in the action. In second person, the subject is you—as in the reader. In first person, the subject is I, and the hero and narrator are generally one and the same. (If you play video games, think of a first-person shooter; the experience is similar, at least if you imagine reading as a gunfight.) A sentence can appear wildly different when written in one person versus another. Take the sentence He broke the piggy bank. In third person, it is merely an observation. In second person, it is an accusation: You broke the piggy bank. In first person, a confession: I broke the piggy bank. How do you know which person to write in? It depends on which person you ask, of course. For the purposes of this book, I (first person) think you (second person) should continue to write about A____, Z____, and I.B. as A____, Z____, and I.B. (i.e., in third person).

And stop whining about that haircut!
  
Pseudo-assignment: Musical chairs

A game for the whole family! The next time your family sits down for dinner (I know with some families that’s a rare event), ask everybody at the table to get up and move to the chair to his or her right. Continue your dinner conversation with each person now playing the part of the original occupant of his or her chair. If you and your family have trouble seeing things from one another’s points of view, at least you can have fun with your impersonations. And the writing part? That comes afterward when you write furiously in your journal about the insulting ways your family imitated you.
  
Now that A____ and Z____ have determined that they need to find the Other Side, I think we can assume that they would take one last look around I.B.’s house—this time for clues about what and where the Other Side might be. Here they are, continuing the investigation like protagonists in a noir mystery:
  
The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 5
INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
(noir version)

Another day, another crime scene.

Sure, A____ and Z____ were only kids, but they’d cracked enough of I.B.’s old bookamajigs to know how to handle a simple missing-person case like this one. (You want hard, try multiplying fractions—that’s hard.) Like old pros, they scoured his office for clues, dusting for fingerprints, checking for hidden doors, all the usual.

Soon enough, they saw it: a body lying behind I.B.’s desk. Glazed eyes. Faded color. If you’ve seen one dead body, you’ve seen them all, right?

It was an old stuffed bunny. You know the type. Cute. Cuddly. Covered with ink stains. Some poor kid must have loved this thing once. Now one of his long bunny ears was about to fall off. It would have brought tears to your eyes. That is, if you were the sort who had eyes instead of tiny plastic marbles inset in your fur.

Uh, where are you going with this? 

Let me finish. You'll see. The bunny winds up a hero.

A dead stuffed hero.

A____ leaned down and picked up the bunny from underneath the desk. His bad ear dangled by a thread.

Z____ looked at her askance. “This is no time for playing with stuffed animals. You’re tampering with evidence.”

“No, I’m putting him back where he belongs.”

Somberly, A____ laid the bunny inside I.B.’s top hat. He looked ready for his funeral. All that was missing was a bunny priest.

A____’s hand lingered inside the hat. “Either I.B. has a really big head or there’s a secret compartment in here—”

Z____ stepped closer. “Anything in it?”
  
His sister pulled out a shiny gold coin with a flourish, playing magician. “Voilà.”

Z____ whistled. “That’s a lotta gold to hide under a little rabbit. What’s it say? Name of a casino or something?”

She handed him the coin so he could read it. They both swallowed as he turned it over.

THE OTHER SIDE, it said on both sides. Like it was some kind of joke. Only it was about as funny as a pimple on picture day.
  
Beneath the words THE OTHER SIDE was something that looked suspiciously like a street address.

The Other Side wasn’t on the other side of the moon. It wasn’t even on the other side of town. It was right around the corner—

Don’t like hard-boiled eggs, let alone hard-boiled crime stories? Don’t own a trench coat or even a pair of sunglasses? Perhaps I can interest you in a fantasy, instead….

FANTASY: THE AFFAIRS OF WIZARDS
  
I doubt that the imagination can be suppressed. If you truly eradicated it in a child, he would grow up to be an eggplant.
—URSULA K. LE GUIN

Do not meddle in the affairs of wizards, for they are subtle and quick to anger.
—J.R.R. TOLKIEN*

You may or may not have meddled in the affairs of wizards, but you almost certainly have meddled with fantasy. If you haven’t ever read a fantasy book per se, you must have had a fantasy of your own at one time or another. And if you haven’t had a fantasy of your own, well, as the High Queen of Fantasy, Ursula Le Guin, suggests, you must be an eggplant.

A fantasy book can be about anything. That’s the definition of fantasy, after all. But strangely enough, most fantasy books seem to be about the same things: wizards, witches, elves, dwarves, dragons, and the occasional talking animal. Why? I suppose the curmudgeonly answer would be that most imaginative literature lacks imagination. The more charitable answer, and I think the right one, is that these creatures hold enduring fascination and near-universal appeal. (I say near-universal because we all know at least one person who hates fantasy books with a passion.)

Wait—a one-eyed oracle just told me you want to know what a fantasy version of our scene in I.B.’s office would look like. Here’s one possibility. I’m sure you can come up with many more.
  
The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 5

INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

(fantasy version)

A sudden hush had fallen over I.B.’s office. There was a faint rustling, as if a gentle breeze were passing through the room.

“Did you hear something?” asked A____.

“Why are you whispering?” asked her brother.

A____ felt her pant leg ripple. An old threadbare stuffed rabbit was lying next to her foot. “Hey, it’s I.B.’s rabbit.”

She picked him up, smiling. “You have to admit, he doesn’t look like he can type.” “Ha-ha,” said Z____.

“He’s kinda cute, though….”

“I am not cute.”

“Trust me, I wasn’t talking about you,” A____ scoffed.

Z____ looked at his sister in confusion. “I didn’t say you were.”

“You didn’t?” She shrugged it off. “Anyway, aren’t rabbits’ feet supposed to be lucky? Maybe if we carry him around, we’ll find out where the Other Side is.”

“Just don’t start rubbing my foot. I hate that.”

A____ made a face. “That’s disgusting.”

“That wasn’t me!” Z____ protested.

“But there’s nobody else here!” A____ glanced down at the rabbit in her hand. Was it her imagination or did the rabbit’s tiny plastic eye just blink?

“Would you put me down already?”

A____ jumped—and almost dropped the rabbit.

“Did you… talk?” she stammered. If her brother hadn’t also been staring at the rabbit, she would have assumed she was going mad.

“So she’s not deaf after all—just rude!” said the rabbit sarcastically. “Now put me down. Please.”

“Uh… OK,” said A____. In a daze, she started lowering the rabbit to the floor.

“No! Not on that dirty rug.” The rabbit shook his head; his floppy ears flailed violently. “Would you want to lie there with all those empty _____ wrappers?”

“Where, then?” asked A____, trying her best to keep her composure. She hadn’t spoken to a stuffed animal in many years, and she’d never heard one speak back.

“Where do you think?”

“I think he means I.B.’s hat,” said Z____.

“NO, I mean my hat!” the rabbit snapped. “Why does everybody always think it’s his?” “Sorry!”

A____ started to put the rabbit in the old top hat.

“Wait! Look inside,” said the rabbit.

“But it’s empty,” said A____.

“Hidden compartment. Don’t you know anything?” the rabbit scolded. “Never enter a magician’s hat without thoroughly inspecting it first.”

“I thought it was your hat,” said Z____.

The rabbit twitched his nose. “Touché.”

A____ felt around inside the hat until she found a small object under the lining. She pulled out a gold key. It gleamed so brightly it seemed to radiate its own light. “What’s this?”

“A magical golden key,” the rabbit answered. “Duh.”
  
“We can see that,” said Z____. “What’s it for?”

“When she puts me in the hat, I’ll tell you.”

A____ lowered him into the hat, feetfirst. “Well…?” she prompted.

“Didn’t you say you were looking for the Other Side?” replied the rabbit, yawning.

“You mean there’s a door?” Z____ asked excitedly. “This key will get us to the Other Side?”

“Every door has an other side, doesn’t it? That’s pretty much the definition of a door.”

“You know what he means,” said A____. “Is this the key to the Other Side? Where they’re keeping I.B.?”

“Oh, I think I’ve given you enough help as it is.” And with that, the rabbit closed his plastic eyes. The silk lining of the top hat billowed slightly as he started to snore.

Still staring at the rabbit, A____ and Z____didn’t notice that the walls of the room were vanishing until the shimmering outline of a door appeared in front of them.

What, you don’t believe in elves or fairies? What about trolls or dragons? No? Huh. I guess fantasy is not for you. How about a ghost, then? Don’t tell me you’ve never seen a ghost! Well, you’re about to….

GOTHIC: THE HAUNTED PILLOW
  
There are such beings as vampires, some of us have evidence that they exist.
—BRAM STOKER

What terrified me will terrify others; and I need only describe the spectre which had haunted my midnight pillow.
—MARY SHELLEY*

The Case of the Missing Author

Chapter 5

INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   
(gothic version)

It was a dark and stormy night. Outside I.B.’s house, the wind whistled through the trees—

Stormy night? Oops. It was morning when A____ and Z____ entered the author’s house. How much time could have gone by? Normally, your copy editor will catch a mistake like that, but you can’t rely on it (especially if you don’t have a copy editor). Let’s begin another way.
You already know the gothic genre, even if you don’t think you do. The tone is eerie. The style is antique. Think Dracula… Frankenstein… The Headless Horseman… haunted castles… foggy moors… ghosts… monsters… things that go bump in the night.

Pseudo-intelligence: Don’t use that tone with me

Tone is another term that is difficult to define. But if you think about a tone in music, or even a ring tone, then you can imagine what tone might mean in a literary context. A writer’s tone might be light and tinkly or heavy and tragic. Gentle and kind or shrill and sarcastic. Naive and childlike or self-serious and pedantic. Establishing a tone can be a matter of grammar and word choice (or diction, to use the literary term). Or it can be a matter of subject and style (uh-oh, another vague word). In the end, tone is subjective. Meaning that while one reader may hear a tone, another may be tone-deaf.

Earnest
Ironic
Bellicose
Morose
Zany
Comic
Bitter
Cheerful

Often, a gothic story will include reference to a spooky legend of some kind, usually a legend dismissed as silly by characters in the story until they are forced to reckon with its veracity. “History and mystery,” some call it:

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 5
INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
(gothic version)

“Look at this!” shouted Z____, trying to make himself heard over the howling winds.
He pointed to the legs of I.B.’s desk. They were gouged all over, as if somebody had taken a screwdriver to them. “You think the cat did that?”
“I don’t know, it looks more like tooth marks than scratches,” said his sister, frowning. Z____ smiled darkly. “The Were-Hare, then.”
“Right. That’s what got I.B. Not a crazed fan—a rabid rabbit.” A____ laughed, but she felt a chill nonetheless.

Like all the children in the neighborhood, A____ and Z____ had grown up hearing strange stories about the Were-Hare, the monster rabbit who allegedly haunted the woods behind their street. According to legend, the Were-Hare had teeth of gold, so long they reached below his chin. Anybody bitten by the Were-Hare went mad—and believed for the rest of his life he was a rodent in human form. On the other hand, anybody who managed to extract one of the Were-Hare’s teeth would have good luck for as long as he could keep the tooth.

Not the Were-Hare again! Either you really believe that story or you're deliberately tormenting me!
  
Their inspection of the tooth marks was interrupted by a loud hissing sound. They spun around to see I.B.’s cat standing in the doorway, his back arched to its maximum height and his hair bristling in alarm. In the background, haunting organ music began to play.

“What’s wrong with him?” asked A____.

“Uh, maybe it has something do with that?”

Eyes wide, Z____ nodded his head: something was moving under a pile of papers.

As the cat darted away, whatever it was headed toward Z____ like a wave in a paper ocean. Before A____ could respond, it sprang into the air, sending papers flying in all directions and casting a monstrous shadow on the wall. It landed at Z____’s foot and opened its mouth— “Aack!” Z____ jumped away just before the creature could bite into his ankle.
It was the Were-Hare.
His red eyes stared furiously. His pink nose twitched menacingly. His gold teeth gleamed ominously.
“Back! Shoo!” cried Z____. “A____, do something!” “Like what?”
The rabbit flew at Z____ again. Z____ moved his leg just in time.
A____ picked up the nearest object.
“Not that!” yelled Z____. “That’s I.B.’s next book!”
“I’m trying to save your life! Besides, it’s blank, remember? He didn’t write a thing!” said A____, swatting at the rabbit with the notebook.

The rabbit chomped down on the notebook in a rage. A____ tugged hard, but the growling rabbit sank his teeth in deeper.

“You get out of here, you nasty rabbit!”

A____ spun around, lifting the rabbit into the air. Then she let go.

The rabbit sailed across the room. He landed in the corner with a crash and sagged to the floor.

As his snarls turned to snores, the notebook dropped out of his mouth, a single gold tooth lodged in its side.

Tentatively, Z____ tiptoed over and picked up the notebook, then scurried back to the other side of the room as fast as he could.

“What are we going to do with him?” whispered A____.

“I don’t know. But if the stories are true, this tooth might just get us to the Other Side.” Grimacing, Z____ pulled the gold tooth out of the notebook. As he held it up, lightning flashed outside, illuminating the tooth with a fierce golden fire.
  
That's it. I'm done. Finito.
What do you mean?
Does it not occur to you that a rabbit has feelings? If you prick us do we not bleed? If you tickle us do we not laugh? In short, I quit.
But, Quiche you can't-
Oh, but I can. Unlike the helpless bunnies in your book, I hop quite well, See-!

READR, CAN YOU PLEASE EN TERTAN YR SELF FIR A MOMENT? I HVE TO R UN AFTR MY RABIT. I’LL STIC IN A FEW FILLR PAGES TO KEEP U OCCUPID. SORY, FO R THE BAD TYPING.. JUST IN A HRRY, THAT’S ALL. I TYP GREAT. RLY. THT’S JUS A VICUS RUMR THAT I DON KNO HOW!
  
RANDOM WRITING TIP:
When in doubt, INSERT FART JOKE.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  

Suggestions

What do you call a writer who doesn’t fart in school?
A private writing toot-er.

Why couldn’t the ghostwriter fart?
He had no guts.

How poor was the starving writer?
So poor he had to fart twice in his pocket to make two scents.

Why is a fart sharper than a number two pencil?
It cuts right through your pants without leaving a hole.
  
EMERGENCY PORTAL
A get-out-of-jail-free card for authors and characters alike. If you can’t figure out how to get your characters out of a tight spot, use this handy portal to zap them across time or into another dimension. I’m only giving you one, however, because as a rule I don’t approve of portals. Too convenient. If you want more, you’ll have to draw your own.

Dear Guest,
We regret to inform you of a staff change. After years by our side, our longtime companion Quiche has decided it’s time to explore greener pastures, or should we say orange-er carrots. It saddens us to see him go, but we wish him the best of luck in his new endeavors, and we want him to know our hat is always open to him should he choose to return. While we search for a replacement, we will attempt to offer the same excellent service you’ve come to expect. As we ourselves are now forced to type and retype and, er, retype our words again, you may experience a slight delay in your reading. Please bear with us.
—The Management

CHAPTER TEN
Fictional Worlds: The Other Side

Are you ready? This is it—it’s time for you to enter the Other Side. By which I mean, it’s time for you truly and finally to take over my side, the writer’s side. You’re not a beginner anymore, and I’m done holding your hand—it’s much too clammy.

Depending on the genre you’ve chosen—noir, fantasy, or gothic—your heroes now have the coin, key, or tooth that will gain them entrance to the Other Side.
  
What is the Other Side like? It’s up to you. Following are some suggestions—but they are only suggestions.
  
Pseudo-intelligence: The whole world in your hands

A novel doesn’t just tell a story; it describes a world. By world I mean the location of your story, but also something less tangible. The world of your book might be the kind of place where an elf or tree sprite or leprechaun is likely to pop up. Or it might be the kind of place where you’re more likely to see a nurse or insurance salesman or social studies teacher. It might be familiar or exotic. Funny or scary. Urban or rural. All gray or colored in neon. The world of your book might be as small as a box of takeout from a Chinese restaurant, or as large as an ocean. (Of course, to a microbe the takeout box might seem enormous, and to a giant squid the ocean might seem small.) Generally speaking, the only rule about fictional worlds is they should be consistent in and of themselves; Middle-earth is Middle-earth, and middle school is middle school, and never the twain shall meet. Then again, it is when worlds collide that new worlds are created….
  
Pseudo-assignment: When worlds collide

Think of two very different worlds (like Middle-earth and middle school) and imagine one inside the other. How would they affect each other? What new world would be born? Write a description of this new world. If you’re inspired, write a story that takes place within it.
  
NOIR: A CRIMINAL UNDERWORLD

In a crime novel, I should think that the Other Side would be part of the criminal world—what is sometimes called the underworld.* But which underworld? An underworld of mafia capos who play poker in pizza joints? An underworld of ragamuffin orphan pickpockets? An underworld of highly paid assassins? To me, the idea of a gold coin, not to mention I.B.’s top hat and bunny, evokes the presence of a magician, or magicians. What if your underworld belongs to criminal street magicians who amaze you with coin tricks—and rob you at the same time? You know, those masters of three-card monte who haunt the street corners and back alleys of big cities around the world.* What else might you find in a place like this? People selling stolen goods, maybe, as well as other street performers, like jugglers or mimes. Rats of the human and animal variety. Assorted trash. Grime.

As for the business advertised on the gold coin—the Other Side itself—it would be the magicians’ club or pool hall or other seedy establishment of your choosing where the criminal magicians congregate between cons. As you will remember, it’s right around the corner from I.B.’s house. To get there, A____ and Z____ have only to walk. Getting inside? Well, that’s another matter. I suppose the coin may get them in—but as honored guests or suspicious outsiders?
  
NOIR FLAP COPY*
Circle the words that best fit the noir world of your imagination, then use them to describe in riveting detail the gritty noir novel you are writing.

Adjectives:
gritty
dark
sly
sluggish
cruel
soft-spoken

Nouns:
alley
shadow
trench
con man
eyebrows
fedora

Verbs:
cheat
slug
steal
lie
shatter
slip

FANTASY: A MAGICAL UNDERWORLD
  
Dorothy waking up to discover Oz outside her door… the Pevensie kids stepping out of the wardrobe into the snowy night of Narnia… Harry stepping onto the Hogwarts Express… The moment when a character crosses from the everyday world into a world of fantasy is always thrilling—at least for a reader who likes fantasy.

When we left A____ and Z____, a shimmering door had just materialized in the middle of I.B.’s office. What lies on the other side of this door? Perhaps the fantasy Other Side is a parallel universe that is the mirror image of ours. Or perhaps it’s nothing like ours; it’s a place where the earth revolves around the moon, gravity pulls you up into the sky, and people hang upside down like bats. The possibilities are many—maybe too many.

Let’s narrow them down by taking our cue from the stuffed rabbit—the only emissary of this Other Side we’ve met. What if, like Alice’s White Rabbit, the stuffed rabbit heralds from an underland wonderland? When your heroes unlock the shimmering door with the gold key, they find a staircase that goes down, down, down, far below where they can see. (The rabbit skips the stairs; he simply dives through the hole in his top hat.) What do your heroes find when they get to the bottom—aside from a lot of chewed carrots? Other toys or stuffed animals come to life underground? An advanced civilization of giant sentient earthworms? A world of glittering gold mines and crystal caves and magical underground lakes inhabited by dwarves, elves, and mermaids who have never seen the sun?

I say yes, yes, and yes.
  
FANTASY FLAP COPY

Circle the words that best fit the fantasy world of your imagination, then use them to describe in glowing detail the magical fantasy novel you are writing.

Adjectives:
magical
epic
luminous
heroic

Nouns:
sword
sorcery
dungeon
druid

Verbs:
pummel
swashbuckle
roar
divine

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

GOTHIC: A DARK FOREST
  
Close your eyes and you can imagine any number of gothic landscapes: deserted ocean bluffs, rocky caves, blind alleys, medieval villages, crumbling castles. But I’m going to push you in the direction of a dark and mysterious forest. Why? Do you happen to remember the howling at the end of the prologue? Did that spark your imagination when you read about it? Does it make you think of anything now? The Were-Hare, of course. Maybe a werewolf, as well? Maybe a pack of werewolves? And, yes, werewolves can go anywhere, but home base is usually a forest, I believe. A forest full of creatures that come out only at night. The gold tooth? Let’s call it a talisman for now. A good-luck charm. Perhaps one of your heroes could fasten it to a chain and wear it for protection… against bad writing, if nothing else.
  
GOTHIC FLAP COPY

Circle the words that best fit the gothic world of your imagination, then use them to describe in electrifying detail the haunting gothic novel you are writing.

Adjectives:
uncanny
cursed
haunted
putrid
hairy
seductive

Nouns:
blood
requiem
tooth
coffin
bat
wing

Verbs:
raise
brood
transform
lurk
horrify
electrify

WRITE THIS:

OK, you’ve had a chance to think about what your Other Side might be like. Three chances, to be exact. Now it’s time to commit to your vision. In the space below, take your heroes from the familiar confines of their neighborhood to the exciting new world of the Other Side. What is the first sight that greets your heroes as they cross the threshold to the Other Side? Do they get only a teasing glimpse? Or do they see a vast panorama? It’s your job to point out the sights of this new world in the way you think will be most compelling for your reader—and most fun for you.

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 6
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  

In which A____ and Z____ cross to the Other Side for the first time.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  

PROCRASTINATION PAGE

DOODLE.

STARE AT DOODLE.

THINK, HEY, THIS DOODLE ISN’T SO BAD— MAYBE I SHOULD BE A CARTOONIST, NOT A WRITER.

STARE AT DOODLE AGAIN.

MAYBE IT’S NOT SO GREAT AFTER ALL.

GO BACK TO WRITING.
  
CHAPTER ELEVEN

A Trail of Chocolate: Keeping Your Book on Track

I have a question for you. No, not what comes next? (That comes next.) The question is what came last? Where did you leave your heroes?

Yes, yes, I know, you left them on the Other Side, and that’s very thrilling, of course, but what else is happening story-wise? Wait, don’t tell me, the intrepid brother and sister are fighting over how to start hunting for I.B.—yes, that must be it. No? You mean they’ve lost sight of each other already? Each of them is alone and bewildered in a new world? Nope? Then has one of your heroes fallen into a hole or been caught in a trap? Oh, I know! They’re so intoxicated by their new environment that they’ve forgotten who they are and what they’re supposed to be doing! The old hypnotized-by-the-wonderfulness-of-it-all twist. Very clever of you.

No, none of those things, either? OK, I give up. Your story must be very original if I can’t imagine—
  
Pseudo-assignment: Understatement and hyperbole

Imagine a shocking event—a horrendous crime, a massive natural disaster—and write about the event as if it were the most ordinary and humdrum thing in the world. Then imagine an ordinary event—a piece of bread toasted, a tooth brushed—and write about it as if it were terribly shocking and momentous.

What? You’re not telling me A____ and Z____ are still “soaking it all in”? They’re marveling at the sights and sounds of the Other Side? You mean like tourists? Huh. We’re going to have to do something about that. Could get boring real soon, my friend. Remember, this isn’t serious literature we’re writing here; it’s genre fiction. We need action. There’s nothing more deadly to a story than an aimless hero.

Even when your heroes are distracted from their mission (whether voluntarily or by force), you want to keep the mission somewhere in their minds and in the minds of your readers. Remember our plot map? Your heroes are on the road now. Destination: story climax. It’s not that I am against exploring side streets and off-road attractions—on the contrary, I often feel that writers are most on target when they are off topic*—but your little side trips are much more likely to hold your reader’s interest if your reader has some sense of where your story is going. Ultimately, whatever your Other Side looks like, A____ and Z____ will have to continue their investigation there, whether that means looking for clues or simply asking people if they’ve seen I.B.

WRITE THIS:

Continue where you left off—or better yet, ruthlessly cut the last section and start over at the point your heroes enter the Other Side. They are alone in an unfamiliar world. And yet against all odds they must try to catch the scent of I.B. The author’s appearance on the other side must have left some kind of impression, right?

Hmm, what could I.B. have left that your heroes might notice? What special characteristic or habit does he have that might leave a trace? You guessed it. Chocolate. I suggest your heroes follow a trail of chocolate. Or a trail of chocolate wrappers, anyway. (The chocolate itself I’m sure I.B. would have eaten.) Think of Hansel and Gretel. I.B. has strewn ______ brand chocolate bar wrappers in his wake—intentionally or unintentionally—the way Hansel and Gretel leave a trail of crumbs on their way into the Black Forest.

Where does the trail lead? Only time will tell.

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 6 (cont.)

In which A____ and Z____ follow a trail of _______ brand chocolate bar wrappers.
  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Fantastic. I can tell you’re becoming a better writer by the minute!* Nonetheless, I’m going to close this chapter for you. Just to maintain momentum. (And because there’s a little plot point I want to insert.) As always, feel free to rewrite my words with your own.

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 6 (cont.)

By now they had been searching for hours without finding another ______ bar wrapper. Could this be the end of the trail? A____ and Z____ wondered. Would they ever find I.B. in this new world, or were they doomed to wander the Other Side forever?

Suddenly, they heard a noise coming from close behind them.

They spun around to see the silhouette of a stranger blocking their way.

Department of Pitfalls: Writer’s Block

As somebody who has experienced so-called “writer’s block” many times, I have many things to say about it, such as

CHAPTER ELEVEN

A Trail of Chocolate: Keeping Your Book on Track

I have a question for you. No, not what comes next? (That comes next.) The question is what came last? Where did you leave your heroes?

Yes, yes, I know, you left them on the Other Side, and that’s very thrilling, of course, but what else is happening story-wise? Wait, don’t tell me, the intrepid brother and sister are fighting over how to start hunting for I.B.—yes, that must be it. No? You mean they’ve lost sight of each other already? Each of them is alone and bewildered in a new world? Nope? Then has one of your heroes fallen into a hole or been caught in a trap? Oh, I know! They’re so intoxicated by their new environment that they’ve forgotten who they are and what they’re supposed to be doing! The old hypnotized-by-the-wonderfulness-of-it-all twist. Very clever of you.

No, none of those things, either? OK, I give up. Your story must be very original if I can’t imagine—
  
Pseudo-assignment: Understatement and hyperbole

Imagine a shocking event—a horrendous crime, a massive natural disaster—and write about the event as if it were the most ordinary and humdrum thing in the world. Then imagine an ordinary event—a piece of bread toasted, a tooth brushed—and write about it as if it were terribly shocking and momentous.

What? You’re not telling me A____ and Z____ are still “soaking it all in”? They’re marveling at the sights and sounds of the Other Side? You mean like tourists? Huh. We’re going to have to do something about that. Could get boring real soon, my friend. Remember, this isn’t serious literature we’re writing here; it’s genre fiction. We need action. There’s nothing more deadly to a story than an aimless hero.

Even when your heroes are distracted from their mission (whether voluntarily or by force), you want to keep the mission somewhere in their minds and in the minds of your readers. Remember our plot map? Your heroes are on the road now. Destination: story climax. It’s not that I am against exploring side streets and off-road attractions—on the contrary, I often feel that writers are most on target when they are off topic*—but your little side trips are much more likely to hold your reader’s interest if your reader has some sense of where your story is going. Ultimately, whatever your Other Side looks like, A____ and Z____ will have to continue their investigation there, whether that means looking for clues or simply asking people if they’ve seen I.B.

WRITE THIS:

Continue where you left off—or better yet, ruthlessly cut the last section and start over at the point your heroes enter the Other Side. They are alone in an unfamiliar world. And yet against all odds they must try to catch the scent of I.B. The author’s appearance on the other side must have left some kind of impression, right?

Hmm, what could I.B. have left that your heroes might notice? What special characteristic or habit does he have that might leave a trace? You guessed it. Chocolate. I suggest your heroes follow a trail of chocolate. Or a trail of chocolate wrappers, anyway. (The chocolate itself I’m sure I.B. would have eaten.) Think of Hansel and Gretel. I.B. has strewn ______ brand chocolate bar wrappers in his wake—intentionally or unintentionally—the way Hansel and Gretel leave a trail of crumbs on their way into the Black Forest.

Where does the trail lead? Only time will tell.

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 6 (cont.)

In which A____ and Z____ follow a trail of _______ brand chocolate bar wrappers.
  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Fantastic. I can tell you’re becoming a better writer by the minute!* Nonetheless, I’m going to close this chapter for you. Just to maintain momentum. (And because there’s a little plot point I want to insert.) As always, feel free to rewrite my words with your own.

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 6 (cont.)

By now they had been searching for hours without finding another ______ bar wrapper. Could this be the end of the trail? A____ and Z____ wondered. Would they ever find I.B. in this new world, or were they doomed to wander the Other Side forever?

Suddenly, they heard a noise coming from close behind them.

They spun around to see the silhouette of a stranger blocking their way.

Department of Pitfalls: Writer’s Block

As somebody who has experienced so-called “writer’s block” many times, I have many things to say about it, such as

CHAPTER TWELVE
A Side of Fries

There comes a time in every writer’s life when he doesn’t know what to write. (Actually, there come many such times, but my point stands.) I have heard numerous solutions to this basic problem, including the aforementioned fart joke (see here–here), but my favorite belongs to Raymond Chandler: “When in doubt, have a man come through the door with a gun in his hand.” 
Unfortunately, this is a kids’ book. There can’t be any guns in it. Same goes for what is euphemistically called language.* If you start writing about characters shooting guns, or even shooting their mouths off, you know what will happen: I’ll get in trouble. (I know, you’ve been playing with guns since you were three and you’ve had a potty mouth for just as long. Sorry. Doesn’t matter.) Please save all that stuff for when you’re seventeen years old and you’re already causing your parents so much grief they can’t be bothered with the likes of me. For now, keep it clean.

Even so, gun or no gun, it’s not a bad idea to have a new character walk into your story every now and then. Every book needs a side character or two. A side character is the French fries to your hero’s hamburger; he turns your book into a full meal.
  
What sort of side character should you include in your book? Well, it could be a sidekick, of course. I’m sure you’re familiar with the idea of a sidekick.

Pseudo-intelligence:

Foiled again!

A foil is a character who differs from another character in a way that highlights the other character’s attributes (whether positive or negative). Sherlock Holmes, for example, is tall and so consumed with his cases that he can go for days without food or sleep; his shorter, rounder, and more cautious friend Watson, on the other hand, is the type never to miss a meal. I don’t have to tell you which of those two I most resemble. What? No, not Watson! Sure, I like a good meal as much as the next guy, but consider my razor-sharp Sherlockian mind…
Batman’s Robin. The Lone Ranger’s Tonto. Sherlock Holmes’s Watson. A magician’s rab—well, never mind that one. A sidekick provides a foil for your hero and gives your hero somebody to bounce ideas off of. (A sidekick can do the same for a villain, of course.) For those things, your heroes A____ and Z____ already have each other, however; in a sense, they are each other’s sidekicks.

Happily, there are many other kinds of side characters. Among other things, a side character can:

1. threaten your hero with violence or some other sort of undesired outcome

2. tempt your hero to do something he knows he shouldn’t do

3. provide information your hero needs to reach his goal

4. serve as a guide in a new world such as the Other Side (I guess that would be an Other Side character)

For your new side character, I suggest e) all of the above. And let’s make him a suspect in our ongoing mystery to boot.

Allow me to introduce him to you:
Remember the stranger who appears at the end of the last chapter? Guess who it is. That’s right. Your side character. Literally blocking the way out, he is also one of the first obstacles that your heroes confront on their mission. (For your story’s sake, I hope there will be many more.) By following the trail of chocolate, A____ and Z____ have attracted unwanted attention. Instead of leading them to I.B., the trail of chocolate has led someone else to them.
And guess what he has in his hand. No, not a gun. It’s a cig—wait, we’re not supposed to have those in the book, either! Well, just watch what happens….

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 7

INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

In which your heroes meet your side character.

The stranger stared at them, puffing on a cigarette, not saying anything. He was about fifteen or sixteen. It was hard to tell exactly.

“I’m Rufus,” he said, as if they should have known. “What do they call you where you’re from?”

A____ and Z____ squeaked out their names.

Z____ nodded at Rufus’s cigarette. “You must have a death wish,” said Z____, trying not to show any fear.

Rufus laughed. “Are you talking about this?” He puffed on his cigarette, and a white cloud came out. But it was a cloud of powdered sugar, not smoke.

He held out the cigarette for them to inspect. It had a pink rubbery end. “It’s bubble gum, you dummies. I’m using it to quit.”

“You’re quitting smoking? That’s good,” said A____.
“No, I would never smoke. I meant quit chewing gum…. Now give me the gold.”*
“What gold?” asked Z____ nervously.
“The gold you flashed to get into this place. The 

coin.”
key”
tooth.”

“Say we have it—why should we give it to you?” asked A____.

“You’re looking for I.B., aren’t you? Or were you just collecting _____ brand chocolate bar wrappers for fun?”

Z____ opened his mouth in surprise. “You know where he is?” 
“I might.”
A____ and Z____ looked at each other. Could they trust him?

All right, author. Take that thinking cap off your pen and put it on your head. It’s time for you to flesh out your new character a bit more.
I called him Rufus—maybe because he seems like a rough sort of guy?—but you can call him whatever you like. Is he short or tall? Pale or dark? Does he have an accent? A scar? Green hair? Tattoo?
Clearly, we want Rufus to seem suspicious. He might even be Suspect #1 himself, the X-fan who wrote the threatening letter to I.B. But I think there should be something appealing about Rufus as well. Could he be responsible for I.B.’s disappearance? Maybe. And yet there’s also the possibility that he’s just a red herring. In the end, he could turn out to be a friend and not a foe.
  
Pseudo-intelligence:
Misleading information

A red herring is a clue or piece of information that is intended to mislead or distract the reader—for example, an innocent character presented as a suspect. Once, it was believed the expression red herring came from the practice of dragging a red herring to lure hunting dogs—but that idea turned out to be a red herring.
  
Need more guidance? Let your genre generate your character for you.

NOIR:
A STREET MAGICIAN

If you’re writing a crime novel, Rufus should probably be one of those scoundrel street magicians we discussed earlier. When A____ and Z____ hesitate to give him the gold coin, he offers to do a card trick. If they can guess where the ace lands, he’ll tell them where I.B. is. If they can’t, they give him the coin. Will they take the bait?

FANTASY:

A TEEN DWARF

For the under-land fantasy version of The Case of the Missing Author, I suggest a teen dwarf. I can think of plenty of teen vampires and teen werewolves, even teen elves, but I can’t remember any teen dwarves.* Maybe the dwarf Rufus tells A____ and Z____ he wants the gold key to escape aboveground and get away from his dwarf parents and the dull routine of cave living. But what is he really after?

HOT ROD 
DWRF-1
65 MPH
CAR TALK
AUTO CLUB

GOTHIC:

A WERE-TEEN

In the gothic version, there should be something dark and brooding and dangerous about Rufus. I like the idea that he is a were-teen but not necessarily a werewolf. Could he be the Were-Hare in human form? That would explain why he wants the gold tooth. If you think he really is the Were-Hare, don’t forget to give him some hare-like (hare-y?) character traits. Then again, he could be a were-hog or a were-bear. Just not a Care Bear, please.

WRITE THIS:

Magician, dwarf, or were-person, your side character has one unavoidable duty: to deliver information.

Where is the missing author? Who has I.B. and why? No doubt, A____ and Z____ would be full of questions for Rufus.

How do they get him to tell them what they want to know? Here’s the most obvious answer: they strike a deal with him. If he tells them where I.B. is, they’ll give Rufus the gold object he wants.

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 7 (cont.)

In which Rufus is described in detail, then strikes a deal with A and Z—his information for their gold.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  

OK, did you finish writing the scene with Rufus?

Don’t bother pretending—you couldn’t have finished it, because you don’t know the answers to your heroes’ questions. You don’t know where I.B. is or even who your villain is. Whether it’s the X-fan or somebody else, someone must be keeping the infamous anonymous author captive. I’m afraid you’ll have to come back and rewrite that last section after you read the next few chapters and gather all the necessary information. Sorry, that’s what second drafts are for!

In the meantime, I’ll throw in a few paragraphs to keep things moving.

“I still don’t understand,” said A____. “Why would anybody take I.B.? He’s just a writer. It’s just books. You know, like make-believe. Who cares?”

“Make-believe, huh?” Rufus pulled a white glove out of his pocket. “All I know is, I found this in I.B.’s house,” he said grimly.

“The Evening Sun—I knew it!” cried Z____. “They’re still trying to learn the Secret.” “But—it can’t be one of them—they never take off their gloves,” A____ protested. “How do we know it’s not I.B.’s glove—he used to be a magician, right?”

“You think I.B. would wear a white glove, knowing what he knows?” asked Rufus.

“Fine, but how do we know it’s not yours?” asked A____, refusing to be convinced.

“Really, you think this is mine?” Rufus put his hand against the glove. The fit wasn’t even close.

THE TICKING CLOCK: A RACE AGAINST TIME!

Now A____ and Z____ suspect the worst: that the Evening Sun are responsible for I.B.’s disappearance. The Evening Sun must still be hunting for the Secret—just as in I.B.’s books! This is scarier than the prospect of a deranged fan kidnapping him. Doubtless, something terrible will happen if your heroes don’t rescue I.B. soon.

We call this the ticking clock.
  
POSSIBLE TICKING CLOCKS:

A bomb set to explode in a pickle factory

The world’s chocolate supply destroyed

A killer cheese mold loosed upon their home city

Something not to do with food (Now, that would truly be a disaster!)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
  
Or, if you want to go a more predictable route:

NOIR:

The Evening Sun are going to kill I.B. if he doesn’t reveal the Secret.
  
FANTASY:
He will be stuck in a fantasy world forever if he doesn’t reveal the Secret.

GOTHIC:
He will be made into a were-hare if he doesn’t reveal the Secret.
  
WRITE THIS:

Feeling that their mission is more urgent than ever, A____ and Z____ ask Rufus to get them to I.B. as fast as possible. Unfortunately, being young and inexperienced, your heroes have already given Rufus the gold he desires. As a result, he ditches them at the first opportunity. I know, it sounds heartless, but as the author of this book, your responsibility is to put your heroes in the most perilous situation possible. Which means no protective teenager at their side. (Fear not!—we will find a use for Rufus later.)

Alas, this means your heroes will have to find the place I.B. is being held on their own. Worse, you, the author, will have to figure out a way to get them there. What would I do in this awful circumstance? Well, I wouldn’t want to think too hard about it, I can tell you that much. I hate having to think about transportation issues when I’m writing. (It always irks me that my underage characters can’t drive. How am I ever supposed to get them anywhere?) Never mind the problem of a character not knowing where he’s going.

If I were in your shoes, I would probably cheat. After their initial shock at being abandoned by Rufus, I would have your disgruntled heroes discover that he dropped the villain’s glove—along with a scrap of paper on which he has written the villain’s address. Too convenient? Then maybe he dropped a map with the villain’s location circled? No? Oh, well. Happily for me, the problem is yours, not mine.

The Case of the Missing Author

Chapter 7 (cont.)

In which Rufus takes your heroes’ gold and runs away, leaving them to find I.B. on their own.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

REREAD EVERYTHING

YOU’VE WRITTEN.

DECIDE IT’S ALL TERRIBLE AND RIP IT UP IN DISGUST.

INSTANTLY REGRET YOUR DECISION

AND PAINSTAKINGLY TAPE YOUR PAGES BACK TOGETHER.

TELL NO ONE HOW CRAZY YOU ARE.
  
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
The Tension Mounts

Where is I.B.?

Rufus has told A____ and Z____ that I.B. is being held captive, but by whom? A dastardly villain, I hope. A nefarious, perfidious, and altogether hideous member of the Evening Sun. I know you’re anxious to meet your villain, but before your heroes face their new nemesis, they have to break into his stronghold—where he has stashed I.B. They have to storm the proverbial castle.

So I repeat: Where is I.B.? What is this castle? Where does your as-yet-unseen villain lurk? A lonely laboratory? A forbidding fortress? A lurid lair?

FILL IN THE DETAILS: WHAT’S ON THE SCREEN?

NOIR: AN OLD THEATER

When somebody is tied up in a noir story, it’s usually in the trunk of a car, or maybe in a smoky back room, not in a vaudeville theater. But it strikes me that a theater is a likely location for a magician like Rufus to send your heroes. An old theater provides a lot of ammunition for a writer’s arsenal: props and sets for your characters to dart in and out of, ropes and curtains for them to be bound with, dressing rooms for them to hide in. To establish a noir feeling, you should make your theater decrepit and run-down. Give the man behind the counter a sinister quality that makes your reader think he’s poisoning the popcorn. And if you really want to hit the nail on the head, have an old black-and-white noir movie playing on the screen.

FILL IN THE DETAILS: WHAT’S HIDING IN THE SHADOWS?
FANTASY: A CAVE

Why fight it? If you’re being held prisoner underground, why not be held prisoner in a cave? Shackles and chains are always shown off to great advantage by stone walls. If you feel a plain cave is not fantastical enough, color the walls rosy pink or glowing green. Fill the cave with a silver pool and carve out glittering stalagmites and stalactites. And then for good measure, hide the cave with so many enchantments we fear your heroes will never find it—and that if they find it, they will never get out.

FILL IN THE DETAILS: WHAT’S LURKING IN THE MOAT?

GOTHIC: AN OLD CASTLE

Here in the gothic story, I think your castle should be a castle. Let it rise out of the mist, a hulking mass surrounded by an impassable moat and impossibly high walls. As your heroes approach, do they risk detection by armored sentinels? Naturally. But in this world human guards are not the scariest adversaries. It is the inhuman creatures behind the castle walls your heroes should fear. Inhuman like were-Rufus… and were-worse.

WRITE THIS (in three parts):

1. THE DARING PLAN
Now that they know where they’re going, your heroes plan their daring rescue. This probably involves a stakeout or some other way of ascertaining the layout and daily routine of the theater/cave/castle. A____ and Z____ record what time the doors open, who goes in and out, etc. Once they’ve analyzed their destination, they need to come up with a way of getting inside. Do they adopt disguises? Forge documents or party invitations? Wear black masks and leotards and descend into the enemy’s headquarters with ropes and grapple hooks?

Bedroom Jewels Getaway Grand Hall Garden Kitchen Entrance

2. THE CASTLE IS STORMED
Hooray! They made it inside. Your heroes should succeed in getting inside the enemy’s stronghold—but only long enough to give us a taste of victory. Inevitably, something goes wrong…. Do they make too much noise? Are they double-crossed by Rufus? Perhaps their fatal flaws come into play (see character profiles), and A____ or Z____ messes up at the wrong moment, succumbing to temptation or falling victim to his or her own pride….
  
3. BUSTED!!!

In any event, they are captured. As their arms are pinned behind their backs, they come face-to-face with the villain….

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 8
INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

In which A____ and Z____ storm the proverbial castle, only to be caught by enemy forces.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
  
Pseudo-assignment:
Outdoor adventure

Many writers have an extreme fear of the great outdoors. This is not surprising given such factors as soft hands, pasty skin, and an attachment to keyboards and unwholesome snack foods. Nonetheless, I advise all writers to make annual excursions into the outside world. Supposedly, a little vitamin D from the sun is necessary to the health and well-being of all non-vampires, but that is not the reason for my advice. Rather, I recommend going outside to gather writing material. I mean that in a very literal sense. Topics to write about are readily available indoors. (What is the Internet for, after all?) But what materials are you going to write with? After a while you are going to run out of pens, not to mention paper or printer ink. Your assignment: go outside and gather writing materials such as sticks, mud, and leaves. With your new materials, write a secret message to yourself. Or leave a secret message outside for another writer to find. Ideally, the message will be inspired by the materials; and, ideally, the message will be inspiring in turn.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
Villain: A Good Bad Guy
Every good book has a good bad guy.
Your villain is just as important as your hero; to put it another way, a hero is only as strong as the villain she fights. (Maybe a better word here is adversary; but if you don’t think of your adversary as a villain, then you’re not getting into the proper adversarial spirit.) Your villain keeps the action going. Your villain makes your reader grit his teeth in frustration or clutch her teddy bear in fear. The villain is the source of conflict. And without conflict there is no story. A villain is a writer’s best friend.

What makes a good villain? It may seem counterintuitive, but I think it’s best to start with your villain’s most attractive qualities. What makes your bad guy powerful? Why do other people want to please him? Is it only because they fear him, or does he have some other sort of hold on them?

Of course, your villain might not be a bad guy in the conventional sense. Your villain might not be a guy at all, or even a gal. Your villain might be monster or mouse, vulture or virus, typhoid or typhoon. You might have an invisible villain or a silent villain. Sometimes the only villain in a book is inside the hero’s head. (Have you ever heard someone being described as his or her “own worst enemy”? People say that about me all the time.) But whether your villain is real or imaginary, the same rules apply. Say your villain is the little devil whispering in your hero’s ear: ask yourself what makes the devil’s voice so much more seductive than the angel whispering on the other side.

Who, then, is your villain?

NOIR:
A MASTER MAGICIAN
  
Attention, criminals, or, er, crime writers. In classic crime novels, villains usually fall into certain types. Two of the most common are the Mr. Big character and the femme fatale. Mr. Big is the behind-the-scenes guy who’s calling the shots—ordering assassinations and robberies but rarely getting his own hands dirty. Sometimes he’ll seem jovial and avuncular at first, maybe offer you a drink or a cigar (that is, if you happen to be a grown-up and living inside an old black-and-white movie). Only at the end do we recognize how ruthless he really is. Likewise, the femme fatale usually enters the story as a victim, not a villain. She plays upon your sympathies and manipulates you into doing her bidding. By the time you realize you’ve been duped, it’s too late.

I don’t recommend you model your villain after either of these types, which, after all, are not just types but that awful thing: stereotypes. I would go with a more original choice. One of your street magicians, maybe—the sneakiest, smartest, and most talented of the bunch—now off the street and operating his crime ring out of the back of that closed theater. The master magician as master criminal. And if a little Mr. Big slips into his character, you can always tell yourself he’s not a stereotype but an archetype. It sounds much more dignified.*

As for the missing glove, naturally he pretends that it is only a magician’s glove and not a sign that he is part of the Evening Sun. Do you believe him? I don’t.

FANTASY:

A HEADSTRONG DRAGON

Fantasists, the characteristics of your alternate universe will most likely determine the character of your villain. If your universe is populated by talking turnips, then your villain may well be a rutabaga. Then again, if your book’s alternate universe is more like the one we know in “real life,” then your villain should likewise be more familiar—maybe uncannily familiar. Indeed, if you’re writing about a so-called parallel universe, the villain might be the alter ego of the hero, an alternate self.

Of course, if your universe is an utterly fantastical place—as I think your under-land wonderland is—then there is no limit to the form your villain might take. But here again I find that stereotypes often prevail. Why are dragons always so wise? Why are giants always so gentle? Why do so many fantasy characters have names that sound like herbs and not people? (Yes, Eragon, I’m thinking of you.) And why are so many fantasy villains either fiery sorcerers who blacken the world with soot or ice-queen witches who blanket the world with snow?

Your fantasy villain is a cave-dweller, is he not? Then a dragon may be the way to go. Just not a wise dragon, please. Make him rash and headstrong instead. What he’s doing wearing a glove with those talons is a mystery to me. Unless the original wearer of the glove is somewhere inside him.

GOTHIC:
AN ALPHA WOLF

Goths, you have an embarrassment of riches when it comes to villains. Not just werewolves but ghosts, witches, vampires (please not the sparkly kind!). They’re all yours. Although again, you should watch out for stereotypes. What about a vampire who passes out at the sight of blood? Or a witch who’s terrible at spelling? Or a ghost who’s afraid of the dark?

I mentioned werewolves first because, as you know, we’ve already included a were-animal—the Were-Hare. He could be your villain, I suppose. For all we know, he’s coming after A____ and Z____ already, bent on revenging himself and retrieving his lost tooth. But there could also be a nastier creature: an alpha werewolf who rules the castle as an evil lord by day and haunts the woods on four feet at night.

In the case of the werewolf, a dropped glove is easy to explain; it falls off every time his hand turns into a paw.

MWAHAHA:

BUILD YOUR VILLAIN HERE

EVIL MASTER PLAN:

world domination
theft of priceless diamond  
to cheat on history final 
to go to Mardi Gras while grounded  
to be voted most popular 
life without parental restrictions 
other _________________
  
TRADEMARK:
twirling mustache
eye patch
evil cackle
peg leg
lip balm
fabulous hair
other _________________
  
SIDEKICK:
parrot on shoulder
lapdog
drooling, one-eyed ogre
vacuous beautiful person
other ______________
  
POWERS:
turns people to ice or stone with a glance
necromancer, commands army of zombies
12 volts
killer smile
morphs into dragon
excellent hopscotch player
other _______________
  
BACKSTORY:
was unloved as a child and therefore hates everyone
was unloved as a child and therefore insists on being loved by everyone
was killed many years ago yet refuses to stay dead (and was unloved as a child)
was hatched out of an egg (and was unloved as a child)
other _________________________ (and was unloved as a child)
  
Pseudo-intelligence:
How to introduce your villain

Sometimes a villain doesn’t appear until late in a story; in earlier parts the villain is only hinted about or indirectly revealed through his actions. In The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, for example, you hear about the terrible doings of the Dark Lord long before you meet him in person (if person is the right word for the living embodiment of evil). Other times, you might have a fleeting encounter with a villain at the outset of a novel, perhaps in the guise of a seemingly innocent stranger whose villainy you don’t suspect until later—much in the way that someone who meets Bruce Wayne at a party wouldn’t suspect he was Batman. In still other cases, somebody your hero sees every day might turn out to be the villain. Even the narrator of a book can turn out to be a villain. Certainly, I’ve been accused of being a villain more than once. The only rule most people would ascribe to is that your villain must be introduced—or at least mentioned—before the end of your book; it is considered bad form to throw in a villain from outside your book at the last minute simply because you need one.

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 9
INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   

In which your heroes meet your villain.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
The Climax

By now your readers should be gnawing their fingernails and staying up all night with a flashlight, intent on finishing your book. Me, I’m much too old and sleepy to stay awake. If your readers need the rest of the story right away, you’ll have to tell the story all by yourself.

Here’s what should happen next:

PRISONERS!
Although they intended to rescue a hostage (I.B.), A____ and Z____ have become hostages themselves.

They must now face their greatest fears (see profiles again). Model yourself on the meanest substitute teacher you’ve ever had, and torture your characters as much as possible. If they are claustrophobic, you, the author, must put them in tiny cells where there is no room to stand. If they are afraid of heights, tie them to the top of a tower. If they have a morbid fear of snakes… well, you get the idea.

Mustering all their courage and ingenuity, your heroes must overcome their fears and break out of their prison. How? They can’t do it alone. But they can do it with the help of—drumroll, please… SUPERBUNNY!

What’s that, reader? You think a rabbit superhero is an unlikely addition to our story? Well, then I guess you’ve never met MY rabbit!*

Confidential to Quiche:
Faithful furry friend, I admit it, I'm no good without you! You can have as many carrots as you like-and I'll even give you weekends off. Please come back to me. 
Your old pal, PB
  
THE ESCAPE
Once released from their holding cell (thank you, Superbunny!), your heroes use their detective skills and locate the back room/inner cave/dungeon where I.B. is being held captive. With a little bit of luck and more than a little ingenuity (but no bloodshed, please; remember, this is a kids’ book!), they avoid being seen and they manage to get inside. There they find a man tied to a chair with his face covered by a hood. I.B.! He doesn’t respond to their whispered greeting. Is his mouth gagged? Is he unconscious? Together, A____ and Z____ yank off the hood, revealing…

THE TWIST
Rufus! The explanation: Rufus himself was searching for I.B. all along. That was why he wanted the gold coin/key/tooth. Alas, he got caught by the villainous magician/dragon/werewolf, just as A____ and Z____ did.

A further twist? Rufus is the X-fan—their first suspect. (How this squares with his identity in the crime world vs. fantasy world vs. gothic world, I leave to you.) He never wanted to hurt I.B., only to push him to write a sixth book. When he discovered I.B. was missing, he, like A____ and Z____, embarked on a mission to find him.

What do your heroes do with Rufus? You decide, but I think they would taunt him a little bit (he did ditch them, after all) and demand that he return their gold object before they set him free. Together, they all escape. But not without a few hair-raising moments.

Pseudo-intelligence:
Do the twist

No, not the dance. I’m talking plot twist. You can’t have too many twists. Everybody loves a twist.

Famous twists:
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

Sorry, I didn’t want to spoil any of them.

Climax: Defusing the bomb

Now what was your ticking clock? If your heroes’ only fear was that I.B. was about to be killed, then it seems your climactic moment has already occurred—and you should beef up the previous section accordingly. (What was the ax that was about to come down on Rufus’s neck? How did A____ and Z____ stop it?) If your ticking clock was something else—say, an actual bomb set to explode—now is the time to defuse the bomb.

This should be the white-knuckle moment of white-knuckle moments. Let it go down to the wire. All is about to be lost. Your heroes succeed at the very last second. Thankfully, A____ and Z____ now have Rufus to help them. They flee just in time while behind them the villain’s theater/cave/castle redoubt is engulfed in flames or collapses on itself or crumbles to the ground….

The end? Not quite.

WRITE THIS:
I’m not going to repeat myself anymore. Just write it below.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 10
INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE

In which A____ and Z____ escape and find the place where they believe I.B. is being held—only to discover that the prisoner is Rufus.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

(Ending a book is often the hardest part.
I recommend avoiding it as long as possible.)

GO BACK TO FIRST
PROCRASTINATION PAGE.

REPEAT.

THEN WORK YOUR WAY THROUGH
ALL PROCRASTINATION PAGES.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Coming Home

A____ and Z____ are now bona fide heroes, and yet they are no closer to achieving their goal.

Where is I.B.? Wherever he is, they appear not to have helped him at all.

WRITE THIS:

With or without the help of Rufus, your heroes have to navigate their way home—and then decide what, if anything, to do about finding the missing author. I’ll make you a deal: if you get them home, I’ll take over the book again from there. Just tap me on the shoulder when you’re done, and I’ll see if I can manage a few more paragraphs.

The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 11
INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
In which A____ and Z____ fight their way out with Rufus, then find their way home.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
The End—P.B.’s Version
The Case of the Missing Author
Chapter 12
INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   

(P.B.’s version)

Two days later…

A____ didn’t think about the ______ coming out of I.B.’s chimney until she was already walking back into her house with the day’s mail under her arm.

Suddenly, she realized what it meant.

“Z____!” she shouted, dropping the mail on the floor. “He’s back—or somebody is!” This time they didn’t hesitate. They ran across the street and pounded on I.B.’s door. A muffled voice came from inside. “Hold on—I’m coming!”

Their neighbor opened the door after about a minute and a half. He was wearing pajamas, and his hair was standing on end. His cat protectively circled his feet.

“Oh, it’s you guys,” said I.B., as if they’d known each other for years. “What’s the emergency?”

“We should ask you that,” said A____.

“What do you mean? Everything’s fine here.”

Z____ looked at the author suspiciously. “So then… you’re OK?”

“Why shouldn’t I be? By the way, did you feed the cat like I asked?” He frowned. “He seemed very hungry when I got home.”

“The cat? What about you?” protested A____. “We read your note. We thought you needed our help. We went all the way—”

“We went all the way to the Other Side,” said Z____, finishing his sister’s sentence. “We looked all over for you—”

I.B. clapped his hands. “Oh, good. I was hoping you would. What was it like? You have to come in and tell me everything.”

“I don’t understand—did you want our help or not?” asked Z____, not moving.

“I absolutely did. I still do,” said I.B. indignantly. “And it sounds as if you have plenty of material for me to write.”

“To write?” echoed A____ in surprise.

“Of course. What did you think I needed help with?”

“You wanted us to help write your book?” Z____ spat out. “That’s why we let ourselves get messed up with the Evening Sun?”

“Well, yes…”

“You mean you weren’t really in trouble?!” asked A____, disbelieving.

“Oh, I was. I am. Big trouble. The book is way overdue and, well, I can’t thank you enough —”

A____ and Z____ looked at each other, trying to absorb what the older author was saying.

“But what about what I heard that other night? The laugh and cry and thud?” asked Z____.

“You didn’t get hurt? They didn’t kidnap you?”

I.B. laughed. “Well, I might have hurt my foot when I threw my notebook to the floor…. I was just laughing and crying in despair. Wretched writer’s block—it makes me scream every day! Afterward, I went for a walk to clear my head.”

“And then you planned it all so we would figure out your story for you.”

“Well, I didn’t plan it all,” said the author modestly. “There was a little luck involved.” “So everything we saw and did—saving Rufus—that’s all going to go in your book?” “Oh, that worked, did it?”

“What about everything we saw on the Other Side? Was nothing real?”

“Depends what you mean by that.”

“What if we don’t tell you our story?”

“Well, I guess you don’t have to. But then you wouldn’t get the prize,” I.B. added nonchalantly.

“What prize?”

“Oh, just membership in the Cester Society…”

Z____’s eyes widened. “Let me get this straight—if we help you write your book, we can be members of the Cester Society?”

“Well, honorary members, anyway.”

“It’s like our payment?”

“Well, I wouldn’t put it so baldly. You make it sound so crass. Like quid pro quo—” “Wait, we need to talk about it for a second—privately.”

I.B. shrugged. The siblings stepped away from his door and heatedly whispered to each other.

After a moment, they turned back to I.B. They’d made their decision.

To be continued…

Oh, so you didn’t like that ending, either? Well, that must mean this is a good book, then. As a brilliant and distinguished author (OK, it was me) once said, “Only bad books have good endings. If a book is any good, you don’t want it to end.” To that end, you can keep this book going for as long as you like.

And, who knows, there just might be a membership in a certain secret organization waiting for you… on the other side.

WRITE THIS:
Write your own ending—or endings—here. Attach extra pages as necessary.

The Case of the Missing Author
Ending
INSERT CHAPTER TITLE HERE
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   

(your version)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   

YOUR LAST
ASSIGNMENT

Rewrite everything.
(Because as every
writer knows,
rewriting is
everything!)

THE END*

Cester Society
*Certificate of Appreciation*

In recognition of your brave exploits in the field of literature
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
(aka YOU)
are hereby granted
HONORARY MEMBERSHIP
In the Cester Society

Signed,
I.B. Anonymous

APPENDIX

Pseudonisms: Words to live by

You don’t have to reinvent the wheel every time you write a book; you have to reinvent the whole car.

Writers don’t get better as they get older; they just get older.

Don’t learn to write. Write to learn.

It’s all right to have a lot of books on your plate, but not on your hot plate—it could start a fire.

Remember, when your face is buried in a book, nobody can see you pick your nose.

Parental Obituary Section

Anne of Green Gables, by Lucy Maud Montgomery—The eponymous Anne is an orphan adopted inadvertently by a couple who wanted a boy. The cause of her parents’ death is unknown.

The Chronicles of Narnia, by C.S. Lewis—Not technically orphans, the Pevensie children are sent to live with their uncle in the country while their parents remain in London for the duration of the war.

Cinderella, folktale—Not an orphan per se, Cinderella is certainly treated like one. Traditionally, her mother died in childbirth and her father only later.

Hansel and Gretel, fairy tale—More literary characters with a dead mother. Their stepmother claims there is not enough money to feed them.

Harry Potter, by J.K. Rowling—Harry’s parents died protecting their baby from the evil sorcerer Voldemort. Harry famously bears a scar on his forehead from that fateful day.

Heidi, by Johanna Spyri—Heidi is yet another eponymous orphan heroine, this one in the Swiss Alps.

Huckleberry Finn, by Mark Twain—An American classic about a half orphan. Huck’s mother died of unspecified causes. His father is a derelict.

James and the Giant Peach, by Roald Dahl—James’s parents were killed by a rhinoceros that had escaped from the London Zoo.

Little Orphan Annie, by Harold Gray—The comic-strip prototype of the musical star. Her parents possibly died in a car accident after giving her up for adoption. Possibly.

The Lord of the Rings, by J.R.R. Tolkien—Hairy-footed Frodo Baggins’s parents died in a boating accident when he was twelve. Later, the hobbit hero is adopted by his cousin Bilbo, hero of The Hobbit.

The Mysterious Benedict Society, by Trenton Lee Stewart—Reynie Muldoon is an orphan whose prodigious mental powers lead to adventure.

Oliver Twist, by Charles Dickens—Perhaps the most famous orphan of all time. His mother died in childbirth. His father is gone for no apparent reason.

Peter Pan, by J.M. Barrie—Peter was lost as an infant. When he went back to see his parents, they had a new baby—so he flew away forever.

Pippi Longstocking, by Astrid Lindgren—Pippi’s father was washed overboard during a particularly nasty storm.

Pollyanna, by Eleanor H. Porter—Another famous orphan from literature, Pollyanna remains hopeful in the face of ever-worsening circumstances—including the deaths of her parents. To be a Pollyanna is to be irrationally, even irritatingly, optimistic.

The Secret Garden, by Frances Hodgson Burnett—Colin’s mother, Lilias, fell from a tree in the garden, triggering the premature birth of her child and ultimately her own death. Mary’s mother died of cholera in India, along with Mary’s father and all of the household servants.

A Series of Unfortunate Events, by Lemony Snicket—The Baudelaire siblings’ parents perished in a suspicious fire in this series.

Star Wars, directed by George Lucas—Luke Skywalker’s mother, Padmé, died from an appallingly literal “broken heart” shortly after childbirth. And if you don’t know what happened to his father, well, congratulations.

Superman, by Jerry Siegel—The Man of Steel’s parents were scientists who predicted the demise of their own planet and sent him off in a rocket to find an inhabitable planet. What great parents!

The Wizard of Oz, by L. Frank Baum—Dorothy Gale’s parents died of unspecified causes.
Perhaps they, too, were blown away.

First Sentences

Here are a few noteworthy novel openers:

NOTICE
Persons attempting to find a motive in this narrative will be prosecuted; persons attempting to find a moral in it will be banished; persons attempting to find a plot in it will be shot. BY ORDER OF THE AUTHOR
—Mark Twain, The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn

One thing was certain, that the white kitten had nothing to do with it:—it was the black kitten’s fault entirely. —Lewis Carroll, Through the Looking-Glass

It was seven o’clock of a very warm evening in the Seeonee hills when Father Wolf woke up from his day’s rest, scratched himself, yawned, and spread out his paws one after the other to get rid of the sleepy feeling in their tips. —Rudyard Kipling, The Jungle Book

There was a boy called Eustace Clarence Scrubb, and he almost deserved it.
—C.S. Lewis, The Voyage of the Dawn Treader

Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show.
—Charles Dickens, David Copperfield

If you really want to hear about it, the first thing you’ll probably want to know is where I was born, and what my lousy childhood was like, and how my parents were occupied and all before they had me, and all that David Copperfield kind of crap, but I don’t feel like going into it, if you want to know the truth. —J.D. Salinger, The Catcher in the Rye

“Where’s Papa going with that ax?”
—E.B. White, Charlotte’s Web

What do these sentences have in common? Not much that I can see. And yet they all make me want to read more: Is that really what it’s like to be a wolf? What did the black cat do that was so bad? Will I be shot for reading Huckleberry Finn? Will David Copperfield turn out to be a hero or a villain? Are there going to be more bad words in The Catcher in the Rye or is crap the worst one? What did Eustace Clarence Scrubb do to deserve to be named Eustace Clarence Scrubb? And where is Papa going with that ax? I thought Charlotte’s Web was a sweet story about barnyard animals—not a murder mystery!

WRITING TIPS
Ideas: Lie, Cheat, and Steal
Where do I get my story ideas? When readers ask me this, I usually tell them I’m sorry, I don’t know where my ideas come from. There is no method to my madness, just… madness. If they persist in questioning me, I tell them I don’t have to come up with ideas because everything I write is true. But, I admit, these aren’t very satisfying answers.

In order to get all of you budding young authors off my back, I’ve decided to come up with some helpful suggestions for coming up with ideas. Or at least some suggestions that sound helpful. Here’s what I’ve got so far. Let me know what you think.…

1. Lie
Lying is always your first and best option when it comes to writing fiction. Need a subject for a story? Just make it up. Whoever wrote write what you know obviously didn’t know what they were writing. If writers only wrote what they knew, there would be no stories about fairies or dwarves or dragons. No animals would ever talk. Only murderers would write murder mysteries, and only ghosts would write ghost stories. A story starts with an act of imagination. And if your ending is half decent, it ends with one, too. A good liar is a good tale-teller. So, please, tell tall tales. The taller the better.
  
2. Cheat
Then again, take it from me: it’s very hard to make up something new every time you sit down to write. This is what they call writer’s block, and it results in a lot of hair-tearing, teeth-gnashing, and, of course, chocolate-eating. When you can’t come up with something that has never happened, cheat—use something that has happened. But change it up a little. In real life, it was your brother who stuck your head in the toilet? Well, that’s the great thing about fiction. Now you can stick his head in. So you didn’t actually throw your book at your teacher when he called on you—this is your chance. One word of caution, however: please, please change the names of the people involved. You only want them to suspect you’re writing about them.…

3. Steal
When you’re completely drawing a blank, when the wondrous wellspring of your imagination has dried up, when you’ve mined all your childhood memories for golden story-nuggets, then it’s time to commit the ultimate authorial crime: Grand Theft Autho. In other words, steal an idea from someone else. As I once famously said, Bad artists copy. Good artists steal. (Actually, it was Pablo Picasso who said that, but who’s counting?) Maybe you steal from a movie you saw. Or a book you liked. Or even better, a book you didn’t like. But in this case you should change it up more than a little; you should change it up a lot. When I was younger, one writer might have copied another with impunity. Nowadays, with so much information at everyone’s fingertips, you will almost certainly be caught. So make sure that all your words are your own and that you change the context of the idea/event/theme you are stealing. Then you will not be a plagiarist— you will be a master thief.
  
Say, just for instance, the movie you’re stealing from concerns a friendship between a boy and an alien. Maybe you make your story about the friendship between a boy and a dragon. Oh, shoot, that’s been done. How about a boy and a whale? Oops, that’s been done, too. A boy and a robot…? Oh, well, you know what I mean. In fact, there are plenty of stories to be written about aliens, dragons, whales, and robots. I’ll tell you a secret: there are very few original ideas. (Not even the idea that there are few original ideas is original.) Most writers, even the best writers, steal all the time. In the end, the important thing is not so much where your ideas come from, but what you do with them. But that’s a subject for another essay: not Lie, Cheat, and Steal but, let’s see, how about Shake, Rattle, and Roll?
Class dismissed.

EAVESDROPPING
Good eavesdropping skills are vital for any writer, whether you’re looking for story ideas, intriguing characters, or just a bit of dialogue. Here are some strategies and techniques writers employ to divert attention from themselves while they listen to other people’s conversations.

Diversion techniques:
Staring into space
Hiding behind a book or magazine
Pretending to listen to an iPod

Places to eavesdrop:
Bus or bus stop
Restaurant, coffeehouse, cafeteria
Outside your big sister’s bedroom door

Things to listen for:
Story and/or character ideas
Dialogue and/or speech patterns
Secrets

CHOOSE YOUR OWN AWARD*
THE OLD-BERRY, SNOB-BERRY & DARK-CHOCOLATE-DIPPED-STRAWBERRY AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN CHILDREN’S LITERATURE (This is the big one.)
ACADEMY AWARD, BEST ORIGINAL MATERIAL FOR FUTURE ADAPTED SCREENPLAY (Hey, I’m an optimist.)
LITTLE LEAGUE REGIONAL CHAMPIONS
(Just because I never got this one.)
VALENTINE
(Never got too many of those, either.)

TITLES FOR UNWRITTEN BOOKS
Now that you’ve bestowed upon yourself a well-deserved award, it’s clear that you have a glittering writing career ahead of you. Celebrate by naming all the brilliant books you will write in the future—or that you will think about writing in the future while you are resting on your laurels (and/or while you are beset by a terrible case of writer’s block). Who knows, if the titles are good enough—they might be enough.*

If you are one of those old-fashioned people who think a title should reflect the content of a book, here are some unwritten books for you to name:

A guide to the flora and fauna of your backyard
Title: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 

A cookbook for cannibals
Title: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 

A self-help book for moody cats
Title: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 

A how-to manual for cat burglars
Title: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 

The next Pseudonymous Bosch book
(Seriously, I need a title!)
Title: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 

A REAL-LIVE READER INTERVIEWS PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH*

HOW DID YOU COME UP WITH YOUR PEN NAME?
Pseudonymous is an old family name. Bosch is the name of my dishwasher. (My toaster is called Cuisinart—that didn’t seem as good.)

DO YOUR FRIENDS CALL YOU PSEUDO AS WELL?
Friends? What friends? My rabbit calls me Hey You. My cat doesn’t really talk to me anymore.

WHAT/WHO INSPIRED YOU TO BECOME A WRITER AND WHY?
All my best friends are books (see above), and I’m very competitive with my friends.

WHAT ARE YOUR FAVORITE GENRES TO READ?
Mystery—for the questions. Science fiction and fantasy—for the answers. True crime—for professional advice.

WHEN DID YOU START WRITING PROFESSIONALLY?
In writing, I still consider myself very much an amateur. Crime is another story.…

TO YOU, WHAT IS THE HARDEST PART OF WRITING?
The part that comes before being finished.

ARE YOU A GOOD SECRET KEEPER?
I can’t tell you. OK, I’ll tell you. No.


LAST (AND MAYBE MOST IMPORTANT), HOW DID YOU DEVELOP YOUR LOVE FOR CHOCOLATE?
Love at first bite?

Acknowledgments*

Paste flattering photo of yourself here.

Tip: Eyeglasses will make you look more intellectual.

ABOUT THE AUTHOR*

WISH YOU WERE HERE
TO:
P.B. AUTHOR AT LARGE

WRITE QUICHE’S LETTER TO P.B. HERE.


* DON’T COPY ME! THAT’S WHAT A COPYRIGHT PAGE IS SAYING. JUST AS YOU MIGHT SAY TO YOUR LITTLE BROTHER WHEN HE SAYS HE LIKES THE SAME FLAVOR ICE CREAM YOU DO. A COPYRIGHT IS LITERALLY THE RIGHT TO COPY—AND/OR PUBLISH—A BOOK. USUALLY, THE AUTHOR OF A BOOK HOLDS THE COPYRIGHT. HOWEVER, IN THE CASE OF THIS BOOK, YOU ARE THE AUTHOR AND I

HOLD THE COPYRIGHT. IT’S VERY UNFAIR WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT IT. DON’T THINK ABOUT IT.

* HEY, IT WORKED IN THE PAST. AND I’LL TELL YOU A SECRET—TITLES CAN’T BE COPYRIGHTED. YOU CAN STEAL ANY TITLE YOU LIKE, EVEN ONE OF MINE.

* HERE AND THROUGHOUT THIS BOOK, YOU MIGHT CONSIDER WRITING IN PENCIL RATHER THAN PEN. THAT WAY YOU CAN ERASE YOUR TRACKS, SO TO SPEAK. LIBRARIANS ESPECIALLY CAN GET RATHER PEEVISH WHEN THEY SEE PEN MARKS IN THEIR BOOKS.

* IF YOU HAVE ENGAGED IN ANY CRIMINAL ADVENTURES INVOLVING DUPLICITOUS SCHEMES AND HIDDEN IDENTITIES—THAT IS TO SAY, IF YOU HAVE READ ANY OF MY PREVIOUS BOOKS—THEN YOU KNOW WHAT A PSEUDONYM IS: THE PART OF MY NAME THAT COMES BEFORE OUS. MORE GENERALLY, IT IS A NAME AN AUTHOR USES WHEN HE IS TOO SCARED TO PUT HIS OWN NAME ON A BOOK.

* AS YOU KNOW, THE DEDICATION PAGE IS BY FAR THE MOST IMPORTANT PAGE OF ANY BOOK. IT IS YOUR CHANCE TO REWARD FRIENDS, PUNISH ENEMIES, AND MAKE EVERYONE ELSE JEALOUS AND RESENTFUL. MY ADVICE IS TO FILL IN THIS PAGE LAST, BECAUSE THE PERSON YOU WANT TO DEDICATE YOUR BOOK TO TODAY MAY BE THE PERSON YOU WANT TO FLING THE BOOK AT TOMORROW. ALSO, BY KEEPING THE DEDICATION PAGE OPEN, YOU CAN ALWAYS DANGLE THE POSSIBILITY OF A DEDICATION IN THE FACES OF YOUR SCHOOLMATES AND GET THEM TO GIVE YOU THEIR DESSERTS AT LUNCHTIME.

* AN EPIGRAPH IS USUALLY A QUOTATION FROM AN AUTHOR WHO IS OLDER THAN YOU ARE, NOT TO MENTION A BETTER WRITER. SUPPOSEDLY, IT PROVIDES SOME KIND OF INSIGHT INTO THE BOOK YOU’RE WRITING. THE THEME OF YOUR BOOK, SAY. MORE OFTEN, IT’S A WAY OF MAKING YOURSELF LOOK SMART AND WELL EDUCATED.

* FRANKLY, THE TERM TABLE OF CONTENTS HAS NEVER MADE MUCH SENSE TO ME. A BOX HAS CONTENTS. A BOOK HAS WORDS. IT DOESN’T CONTAIN ANYTHING. AS FOR A TABLE, IT DOESN’T HAVE ANY CONTENTS, EITHER; IT HAS… A TOP… LEGS… MAYBE A FEW LOOSE SCREWS. YES, I KNOW, A TABLE OF CONTENTS IS NOT A TABLE AS IN DINNER TABLE; IT’S A TABLE AS IN MULTIPLICATION TABLE. BUT THAT ONLY MULTIPLIES THE PROBLEM. AND MY MATH IS TERRIBLE. I THINK I’LL TABLE THIS DISCUSSION RIGHT NOW.

* WHAT IS A FOREWORD? WHY, IT’S THE OPPOSITE OF A BACKWORD, OF COURSE. AH, BUT THERE’S NO SUCH WORD AS BACKWORD, ONLY BACKWARD. AND YOU DON’T SAY A BACKWARD, ANYWAY. (UNLESS YOU’RE TALKING ABOUT THE BACK OF THE WARD—YOU KNOW, WHERE THEY KEEP THE REALLY CRAZY PEOPLE.) YOU’RE RIGHT; I WAS JOKING. A FOREWORD IS A SECTION AT THE FRONT OF A BOOK WHERE YOU ARE LIKELY TO FIND SOMETHING ABOUT THE ORIGINS OF OR INSPIRATION FOR THE BOOK. BUT THAT DOESN’T SOUND NEARLY AS ORIGINAL OR INSPIRED, DOES IT?

* IF YOU’RE ONE OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO HAVE THEIR HEADS IN A BOOK ALL THE TIME—IF YOU’RE A READER, A REAL READER, IN OTHER WORDS—TAKE HEART. I WAS JUST LIKE YOU ONCE—AND LOOK HOW I ENDED UP! FRIENDLESS. ALONE. WRITING NONSENSICAL BOOKS THAT DRIVE PEOPLE LIKE YOU INSANE.

* AS YOU PROBABLY GUESSED, I.B. ANONYMOUS IS A PSEUDONYM. A PSEUDONYM FOR A PSEUDONYM. WHICH MAKES IT A PSEUDOPSEUDONYM. WHICH IS LIKE THE DOUBLE NEGATIVE OF NAMES. WHICH MEANS… ALMOST NOTHING AT ALL.**

* BY THE WAY, THE LITTLE NOTE ABOVE THIS ONE? THAT’S A FOOTNOTE. SO IS THE NOTE YOU’RE READING. THIS IS A FOOTNOTE TO A FOOTNOTE… ABOUT FOOTNOTES. WHAT IS A FOOTNOTE? WELL, IT’S NOT A NOTE WRITTEN ON YOUR FOOT, IF THAT’S WHAT YOU’RE THINKING. NEITHER IS IT A NOTE WRITTEN WITH YOUR FOOT. A FOOTNOTE IS SIMPLY A NOTE ON THE BOTTOM—OR FOOT, GET IT?—OF A PAGE. AS YOU KNOW IF YOU’VE HAD THE MISFORTUNE OF READING ANY OF MY PREVIOUS BOOKS, A FOOTNOTE EXPLAINS OR ELABORATES ON SOMETHING THAT IS WRITTEN ABOVE IT.

USUALLY, FOOTNOTES ARE INDICATED BY A NUMBER OR A STAR OR STARS (PLURAL) LIKE THESE***.

WHEN YOU SEE THE NUMBER OR STAR OR STARS (PLURAL), YOU’RE SUPPOSED TO LOOK DOWN TO THE BOTTOM OF THE PAGE. YES, YOU SHOULD LOOK DOWN NOW.

* HA. MADE YOU LOOK.

* A PREFACE USUALLY SAYS SOMETHING ABOUT A BOOK’S ORIGINS OR INSPIRATION. AS YOU MAY RECALL, A FOREWORD USUALLY SAYS SOMETHING ABOUT A BOOK’S ORIGINS OR INSPIRATION, AS WELL; AND I’VE ALREADY WRITTEN A FOREWORD TO THIS BOOK. THEREFORE, YOU’RE FREE TO WRITE ANYTHING YOU LIKE HERE. IF YOU MUST HAVE A TOPIC, YOU MIGHT TRY WRITING ABOUT YOUR BIGGEST FEARS ABOUT WRITING THIS BOOK—SO THAT I WILL KNOW HOW BEST TO FRIGHTEN YOU IN THE UPCOMING PAGES.

* ACCORDING TO THE DICTIONARY DEFINITION, WE PROCRASTINATORS ARE PEOPLE WHO HABITUALLY POSTPONE DOING THINGS, BUT I PREFER TO THINK OF US AS PRO CRASTINATORS—IN OTHER WORDS, PROFESSIONAL CRASTINATORS. WHAT IS A CRASTINATOR? OH, I’LL TELL YOU LATER.

* CONFUSED ABOUT THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN A FOREWORD, A PREFACE, AND A PROLOGUE? IF IT’S ANY CONSOLATION, I AM, TOO.

* FOR A FEW FAMOUS EXAMPLES OF OPENING SENTENCES, CHECK THE BACK OF THIS BOOK.

* SHE’S NOT WRONG; MANY WRITERS READ THEIR WORDS ALOUD. IT’S A GREAT WAY TO FIGURE OUT WHAT WORKS AND WHAT NEEDS CUTTING. NEEDLESS TO SAY, I RARELY DO THIS MYSELF. I PREFER TO WRITE AS I LIVE—IN IGNORANCE.

* EVERY AUTHOR NEEDS A UNIFORM. TOM WOLFE, FOR EXAMPLE, IS KNOWN FOR WEARING ONLY WHITE SUITS. ANOTHER AUTHOR I CAN THINK OF NEVER LEAVES HIS HOUSE WITHOUT HIS SUNGLASSES. HE THINKS IT MAKES HIM LOOK DASHING AND MYSTERIOUS. PLEASE DON’T TELL HIM OTHERWISE.

* JUST TO BE CLEAR, WHEN I SAY THAT YOU SHOULD INCLUDE THOSE THREE THINGS IN YOUR MISE EN PLACE, I DON’T MEAN THAT YOU SHOULD HAVE AN ACTUAL HERO BY YOUR SIDE—ALTHOUGH THAT MIGHT HELP—ONLY THE IDEA FOR ONE.

* IN THE LAST CENTURY THERE WAS A REAL PERSON, AN ARTIST, NAMED MAX-ERNST, BUT HIS ART WASN’T ESPECIALLY EARNEST OR REAL; IT WAS SURREAL.

* ACCORDING TO LEGEND, THE BELGIAN CRIME WRITER GEORGES SIMENON WROTE DOSSIERS FOR EVERY ONE OF HIS CHARACTERS, DOSSIERS SO COMPREHENSIVE THAT THEY INCLUDED INFORMATION HE NEVER INTENDED TO USE. KNOWING HIS CHARACTERS SO COMPLETELY HELPED HIM WRITE BETTER, HE CLAIMED. SINCE HE PUBLISHED MORE THAN TWO HUNDRED BOOKS, I DOUBT HE COULD HAVE KEPT TRACK OF HIS CHARACTERS OTHERWISE.

* ALL RIGHT, ALL RIGHT, YOU CAUGHT ME. I HAVEN’T ACTUALLY READ ANYTHING YOU’VE WRITTEN. I’M JUST TRYING TO ENCOURAGE YOU IN THAT EMPTY, MEANINGLESS WAY ADULTS SOMETIMES DO. IT’S INSULTING TO YOUR INTELLIGENCE, I KNOW. I APOLOGIZE. I’LL TRY TO BE MORE RESPECTFUL IN THE FUTURE.

* WHAT IS DRAMATIC TENSION? DRAMATIC TENSION IS WHAT INCREASES AS YOU WAIT FOR A DEFINITION OF DRAMATIC TENSION. IT IS WHAT KEEPS YOU READING. IT IS KNOWING THAT A SURPRISE AWAITS BEHIND THE NEXT CORNER. DRAMATIC TENSION IS WAITING FOR THE AX TO FALL… AND BELIEVE ME, IT WILL.

* I ALWAYS NAME MY CHAPTERS AT THE END; I USED TO NAME CHAPTERS BEFORE WRITING THEM, BUT YOU WOULDN’T BELIEVE HOW MANY CHAPTERS I’VE CALLED “ADVENTURE DOWN AT THE QUARRY” ONLY TO FIND THAT THERE IS NO QUARRY.

* STYLE NOTE: NEVER OVERUSE EXCLAMATION MARKS; IT IS THE MARK OF AN AMATEUR WRITER. YOUR WORDS SHOULD BE ASSERTIVE ENOUGH TO STAND ALONE. THEN AGAIN, I MUST ADMIT, EXCLAMATION MARKS CAN BE FUN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

* FOR A LONGER LIST OF LITERARY ORPHANS, TURN TO THE PARENTAL OBITUARY SECTION IN THE APPENDIX.

* IF YOU THINK I MIGHT HAVE OTHER REASONS FOR NOT DESCRIBING THE AUTHOR’S HOUSE—IF YOU THINK I MIGHT BE AFRAID OF GIVING TOO MUCH AWAY, LIKE MY OWN LOCATION—THEN YOU ARE AS PARANOID AS I AM. AND YOU ARE 100 PERCENT CORRECT.

* CREAKILY? NOISELESSLY? THIS SEEMS LIKE A GOOD SPOT FOR SPOOKY WRITING (OR FOR WRITING SPOOKILY). SPEAKING OF SPOOKING, YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT SOME WRITERS ARE SPOOKED BY ADVERBS. THEY THINK -LY WORDS ARE UNNECESSARY AND SLOW YOUR WRITING DOWN. I SUFFER FROM NO SUCH SCRUPLES AND CHEERFULLY—NO, HAPPILY; NO, JOYFULLY; NO, EXUBERANTLY!—EXULT IN USING ADVERBS EXCESSIVELY.

* I’M SORRY, YOU WILL HAVE TO SUPPLY A BRAND NAME YOURSELF. THE ACTUAL BRAND OF CHOCOLATE BAR I.B. EATS—IS STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL. IN THE WRONG HANDS, THIS INFORMATION COULD BE MY DOWNFALL.
________________

* EAT—ER, THAT

* IF A PIECE OF PAPER HAS BEEN WRITTEN ON WITH LEMON JUICE—ONE OF THE MOST COMMON TYPES OF INVISIBLE INK—HEATING THE PAPER WILL REVEAL THE HIDDEN WRITING. JUST DON’T LET THE TEMPERATURE OF YOUR PAPER RISE ABOVE 451 DEGREES FAHRENHEIT. THAT IS THE TEMPERATURE AT WHICH PAPER STARTS TO BURN, DESTROYING NOT JUST INVISIBLE INK BUT VISIBLE INK AS WELL.

* PERHAPS THE DOUBLE MEANING OF PLOT IS THE REASON THAT AUTHORS’ BURIAL PLOTS ARE SUCH POPULAR TOURIST ATTRACTIONS. REPUTEDLY, SO MANY VISITORS KISSED THE TOMBSTONE OF THE NINETEENTH-CENTURY PLAYWRIGHT AND POET OSCAR WILDE THAT THE FRENCH CEMETERY WHERE HE WAS BURIED, PÈRE LACHAISE, HAD TO DISALLOW IT.

* A DETECTIVE IS SOMETIMES KNOWN AS A “GUMSHOE.” (THIS IS EITHER BECAUSE DETECTIVES WALK SO MUCH OR BECAUSE THE SOLES OF THEIR SHOES MUST BE SOFT TO BE SILENT—I’M NOT SURE WHICH.) ALL AUTHORS PUT THEMSELVES IN A GUMSHOE’S SHOES AT ONE TIME OR ANOTHER; RE-CREATING PAST EVENTS (REAL OR IMAGINED) IS THE JOB OF DETECTIVE AND WRITER ALIKE.

* NATURALLY, I’M NOT SUGGESTING THAT YOU SHOULD GO THROUGH YOUR NEIGHBOR’S MAIL. BUT ANYBODY WHO CLAIMS (LIKE I.B.) THAT HE LIVES IN THE JUNGLE AND COMMUNICATES THROUGH PENGUINS IS FAIR GAME.

* I’M SORRY—I HAD TO PUT SNARKY IN SCARE QUOTES. I DON’T LIKE THE WORD IN GENERAL, AND I CERTAINLY DON’T LIKE IT APPLIED TO ME—ER, I MEAN, TO I.B. I PREFER TO DESCRIBE MY WRITING WITH WORDS LIKE IRONIC… SOPHISTICATED… SUBTLE… ERUDITE.… SHALL I GO ON?

* I REFER HERE TO THE OTHER SIDE AS INTRODUCED IN THE ENTIRELY FICTIONAL BOOKS OF THE ENTIRELY FICTIONAL I.B. ANONYMOUS. ANY OTHER SIDE THAT MIGHT OR MIGHT NOT BE MENTIONED IN MY OWN BOOKS IS ENTIRELY BESIDE THE POINT.

* IF YOU LIKE, YOU CAN COMBINE TWO OR THREE OF THESE GENRES, OR EVEN CHOOSE A DIFFERENT GENRE ALTOGETHER, BUT IF YOU DO, YOU’RE ON YOUR OWN. I CAN ONLY KEEP SO MANY POSSIBILITIES IN MIND AT ONCE.

* RAYMOND CHANDLER WAS AN AMERICAN NOVELIST AND SCREENWRITER FAMOUS FOR HIS NOIR STORIES AND BOOKS. HE MIGHT NEVER HAVE WRITTEN A DETECTIVE STORY HAD THE GREAT DEPRESSION NOT CAUSED HIM TO LOSE HIS JOB AS AN OIL COMPANY EXECUTIVE. OIL COMPANY EXECUTIVE? NO WONDER HE WAS SO GOOD AT WRITING STORIES ABOUT CRIMINALS.… DASHIELL HAMMETT WAS ANOTHER AMERICAN AUTHOR OF DETECTIVE NOVELS AND SHORT STORIES. HE LEFT SCHOOL AT THIRTEEN BUT GOT ALL THE MATERIAL HE NEEDED FOR HIS WRITING WHILE WORKING AS AN OPERATIVE FOR THE PINKERTON NATIONAL DETECTIVE AGENCY. IF THERE IS A MESSAGE IN THAT, I’M NOT GOING TO SPELL IT OUT FOR YOU—BECAUSE I CAN’T.

* THE AUTHOR OF THE EARTHSEA BOOKS, AMONG OTHER FANTASY CLASSICS, URSULA K. LE GUIN SUBMITTED HER FIRST STORY TO A SCIENCE-FICTION MAGAZINE AT THE AGE OF ELEVEN. IT WAS REJECTED. SHE WENT ON TO WIN EVERY SCIENCE-FICTION PRIZE KNOWN TO HUMAN OR ALIEN.… J.R.R. TOLKIEN WAS AN ENGLISH AUTHOR MOST FAMOUS FOR WRITING THE HOBBIT AND THE LORD OF THE RINGS. THE SURNAME TOLKIEN IS THOUGHT TO COME FROM THE GERMAN WORD TOLLKÜHN, WHICH MEANS “FOOLHARDY.” HOWEVER, TOLKIEN WAS RECENTLY NAMED ONE OF THE TOP FIVE HIGHEST-EARNING DEAD CELEBRITIES. HE
HARDLY SOUNDS LIKE A FOOL.

* BRAM STOKER WAS THE AUTHOR OF THE ORIGINAL DRACULA, WHICH MEANS HE WAS SOMETHING OF A VAMPIRE HIMSELF (BECAUSE WE ALL KNOW IT TAKES A VAMPIRE TO MAKE A VAMPIRE).… MARY SHELLEY WAS THE AUTHOR OF THE ORIGINAL FRANKENSTEIN; OR, THE MODERN PROMETHEUS, WHICH MAKES HER SOMETHING LIKE THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, ONLY WITH LESS MAKEUP.

* MAN, THAT JOKE STINKS! (THANK GOODNESS MOST WRITERS WRITE IN PRIVATE, WHERE NOBODY CAN SMELL THEM.)

* I BELIEVE MY ERSTWHILE AMANUENSIS (THAT MEANS “FORMER WRITER’S ASSISTANT,” IF YOU’RE WONDERING) IS HERE QUOTING FROM SHAKESPEARE’S MERCHANT OF VENICE. NOBODY EVER ACCUSED THAT RABBIT OF NOT HAVING A FLAIR FOR THE DRAMATIC.

* THIS CRIMINAL UNDERWORLD IS NOT A LITERAL, UNDERGROUND UNDERWORLD, SUCH AS YOU MIGHT FIND IN GREEK MYTHOLOGY OR UNDERNEATH A GOPHER HOLE. ALTHOUGH IT’S TRUE THAT PLENTY OF GREEK GODS—AND PLENTY OF GOPHERS— ARE KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN CRIMINALS.

* THREE-CARD MONTE IS A “SHELL GAME” INVOLVING THREE CARDS. THE PERFORMER—TYPICALLY, A STREET MAGICIAN—SHOWS YOU A CARD, THEN ASKS YOU TO FOLLOW THE CARD AS HE MOVES IT AND TWO OTHER CARDS AROUND ON A TABLE. AT THE END, YOU CAN’T PICK OUT THE ORIGINAL CARD, AND YOU BLAME THE SPEED OF THE PERFORMER’S HANDS. IN FACT, THE SPEED DOESN’T MATTER AT ALL; HE HAS SWAPPED THE ORIGINAL CARD WITH ONE OF THE OTHER TWO CARDS AT THE VERY BEGINNING. NEVER LET YOURSELF GET LURED INTO A GAME OF THREE-CARD MONTE. YOU WILL LOSE. UNLESS, OF COURSE, I’M THE ONE DEALING THE CARDS. ME YOU CAN TRUST. NOW PUT YOUR DOLLAR ON THE TABLE AND WATCH CLOSELY.…

* FLAP COPY IS THE WRITING, OR “COPY,” THAT GOES ON THE FLAP OF A BOOK COVER. IT’S SUPPOSED TO ENTICE YOU TO READ (OR, MORE TO THE POINT, BUY) THE BOOK DESCRIBED. TRUTH AND ACCURACY NOT ESSENTIAL.

* AN OFF-TOPIC FOOTNOTE: OFF TOPIC MEANS “OFF THE SUBJECT,” BUT NOT NECESSARILY OFF THE WALL (WHICH I’M SURE I DON’T HAVE TO DEFINE FOR YOU) OR OFF-COLOR (WHICH I PROBABLY SHOULDN’T DEFINE FOR YOU). MY ASIDE ABOUT THE EXPRESSION OFF-COLOR WAS OFFHANDED, MEANING IT WAS A CASUAL REMARK, RATHER THAN SOMETHING WITH A LOT OF THOUGHT PUT INTO IT. (IN THAT SENSE, THIS WHOLE BOOK IS OFFHANDED.) OFFAL REFERS TO PARTS OF AN ANIMAL NOT USUALLY EATEN, LIKE THE INTESTINES (SOMETIMES CALLED INNARDS OR TRIPE) OR THE PANCREAS (SOMETIMES CALLED SWEETBREADS). SOME PEOPLE CONSIDER OFFAL A DELICACY; OTHERS MIGHT THINK IT TASTES SOMETHING AWFUL. (NOTHING, HOWEVER, COULD LEAVE AS BAD A TASTE AS THAT TERRIBLE PUN.) IF FOOD IS OFF, IT’S SPOILED. IF A PERSON IS OFF, HE’S A BIT SUSPICIOUS-SEEMING. OR ELSE HE’S JUST NOT AS ON AS HE USUALLY IS. SOMEBODY WHO’S ALWAYS ON IS SOMEBODY WHO’S ALWAYS PERFORMING, ALWAYS TRYING TO GET A LAUGH—EVEN WHEN HE’S NOT VERY FUNNY. (I’M NOT NAMING NAMES.) IF SOMETHING IS JUST PLAIN OFF, IT’S ALL WRONG, OR AT LEAST A LITTLE BIT IFFY. (I HAVE NEVER HEARD OF ANYTHING BEING OFFY, BUT IF YOU’D LIKE TO USE THE WORD, GIVE IT A TRY.) AN OFFICE, AS YOU KNOW, IS NOT JUST A PLACE OF WORK, IT’S ALSO A POSITION HELD, SUCH AS THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OR THE OFFICE OF THE CLASS CLOWN. IF SOMEONE IS OFFICIOUS, HE IS TOO BY-THE-BOOKS AND RULE-ORIENTED, AND WE DON’T LIKE HIM. IF HE’S OAFISH, THEN HE’S PROBABLY A DOLT. A PERSON WHO FALLS OFF THE WAGON IS A DRUNK WHO WAS TRYING TO STAY SOBER BUT CAN’T HELP HAVING A DRINK. IF SOMEBODY GOES OFF ON YOU, HE’S PROBABLY ANGRY AND SAYING MEAN THINGS TO YOU. HE MAY EVEN BE TELLING YOU OFF. IF HE’S OFF TO WORK, HE’S GOING TO WORK. BUT IF HE’S OFF WORK, HE’S ON VACATION. HE MIGHT EVEN BE TRYING TO WORK OFF SOME POUNDS. BY NOW YOU MUST THINK I’M A LITTLE OFF CENTER OR OFF BALANCE, IF NOT DOWNRIGHT OFF MY ROCKER—UNLESS I’M COMPLETELY OFF TARGET AND YOU’RE FOLLOWING MY THINKING, IN WHICH CASE YOU MUST BE AS OFFY AS I AM. BUT SOMETIMES IT IS BY TURNING OFF YOUR CRITICAL FACULTIES, BY ALLOWING YOURSELF TO VEER OFF COURSE, BY NOT CUTTING OFF A MEANDERING CHAIN OF THOUGHT (OR DO YOU PREFER TRAIN OF THOUGHT? TRAIL OF THOUGHT? STREAM OF THOUGHT?) THAT THE MOST CREATIVE IDEAS EMERGE. SOMETIMES. OK, THAT’S IT, I’M DONE SOUNDING OFF.

* I KNOW, I PROMISED I WOULD STOP SHOWERING YOU WITH EMPTY PRAISE. SORRY.

* WHEN I FIRST STARTED WRITING BOOKS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE, MY PUBLISHERS TOLD ME THERE COULDN’T BE ANY “LANGUAGE” IN MY BOOKS. HOW CAN I WRITE A BOOK WITHOUT LANGUAGE, I ASKED, VERY CONFUSED. IS IT SUPPOSED TO BE ALL PICTURES? IT TURNED OUT THEY MEANT “BAD” LANGUAGE. FOR INSTANCE, I WASN’T SUPPOSED TO USE THE WORD—OOPS! I’D BETTER STOP BEFORE I PUT MY FOOTNOTE IN MY MOUTH.

* PHEW, NOT A REAL CIGARETTE. ANOTHER BULLET DODGED. OH, WAIT—NO BULLETS!

* THERE SEEMS TO BE SOME DIFFERENCE OF OPINION ABOUT THE PROPER PLURAL FORM OF DWARF: IS IT DWARFS OR DWARVES?  SINCE WE ARE HERE TALKING ABOUT IMAGINARY CREATURES, I THINK YOU CAN SAFELY USE EITHER SPELLING WITHOUT FEAR OF A DWARF TAKING OFFENSE.

* AN ARCHETYPE IS THE ORIGINAL MODEL OR IDEAL FORM OF A TYPE OF PERSON, PERSONALITY, OR BEHAVIOR. A STEREOTYPE IS THE OVERSIMPLIFICATION OR CLICHÉD RENDERING OF A TYPE OF PERSON, PERSONALITY, OR BEHAVIOR. THE DIFFERENCE: MOSTLY IN THE EYE OF THE BEHOLDER.

* IMPORTANT LESSON: SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO SACRIFICE YOUR ARTISTIC INTEGRITY FOR THE GREATER GOOD.

* OR IS IT? DON’T WANT IT TO END? IF YOU WANT TO KEEP WRITING THIS BOOK, GO TO www.thesecretseries.com

* WHY WAIT FOR THE WORLD TO GIVE YOU ONE? HECK, WHY WAIT UNTIL YOU FINISH WRITING YOUR BOOK?

* THE DIRECTOR PETER BOGDANOVICH ONCE ASKED ORSON WELLES WHAT HE THOUGHT OF A PROSPECTIVE TITLE FOR BOGDANOVICH’S UPCOMING FILM PAPER MOON. WELLES SAID, “THAT TITLE IS SO GOOD, YOU SHOULDN’T EVEN MAKE THE PICTURE; YOU SHOULD JUST RELEASE THE TITLE!”

* THANKS TO SPECIAL AGENT MAX MINDICH FOR THE QUESTIONS!

* THE GREAT THING ABOUT BEING AN ANONYMOUS PSEUDONYMOUS AUTHOR IS THAT I GET TO PRETEND I WRITE MY BOOKS ALL BY MYSELF. I DON’T ACKNOWLEDGE THE HELP I RECEIVE, BECAUSE I CAN’T ACKNOWLEDGE IT; IT’S SECRET. YOU, ALAS, HAVE NO SUCH EXCUSE. USE THIS SPACE TO THANK ALL THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE ASSISTED YOU IN THE MAKING OF THIS BOOK. I SUGGEST YOU START WITH ME.

* I.E., YOU.

Bad Magic
By Pseudonymous Bosch

FOR NATALIA AND INDIA (NOW IT’S FAIR) 

This book begins with a bad word.

Can you guess which one? 

WAIT! Don’t say it out loud. Don’t even think it to yourself. I get into enough trouble as it is. In fact, if the only reason you opened this book is to find the bad words in it, you will be sorely disappointed. I learned the hard way to keep my writing clean.

*Alas, when the hero of this book, Clay, first pronounced this word that I just mentioned, or rather that I most definitively did NOT mention, this swear word, this curse word, this very, very bad word, this word that I am not repeating or in any way revealing, he didn’t know there was anything wrong with it; he was only three years old.

Where would such a young boy learn such a grown-up word? I have no idea. I certainly didn’t teach it to him. Maybe his father yelled it when his father stubbed his toe. Maybe his babysitter grumbled it into her phone when she thought Clay was sleeping. Maybe an older boy taught him the word because the older boy thought it would be funny to hear a three-year-old say it. 

It really doesn’t matter where Clay learned the word any more than it matters what the word was; it only matters that he said the word when he did. At the time of this fateful event, Clay was in a crowded elevator, leaving his first dentist appointment. As his brother would tell it later, Clay was happily sucking on the acid-green lollipop he had been given as a reward for his good behavior,* when all of a sudden he took the lollipop out of his mouth and hollered this terrible, terrible word at the top of his little lungs. 

"#&*%!!!"

Needless to say, everybody in the elevator was shocked to hear such foul language come out of such a small child. A big kid giggled.

An old lady frowned. Even her Pekingese lapdog seemed to whimper in distress. Mortified, Clay’s brother, who was twelve years older than Clay and who was in charge of Clay for the afternoon, leaned in to Clay’s ear and whispered, “You can’t say that—that’s a bad word.” Clay looked at his brother in confusion. “Why? What did it do?” Everybody laughed. The mood in the elevator, er, elevated. 

But that isn’t the end of the story. On the bus ride home, Clay’s brother couldn’t get Clay’s question out of his head. What did bad words do? What made them bad? Finally, he had an answer: “Bad words are bad because they make people feel bad. That’s what they do.” Clay nodded. This made sense to him.

“And good words make people feel good?” 
“Right.” 
“And magic words make people feel magic? 
”Clay’s brother hesitated. He was an amateur magician and said magic words all the time—mostly while practicing tricks on Clay—but he’d never thought about them in this particular way.
“Um, I guess. How ’bout that?” 
“Accadabba!” said Clay, giggling. 
“Shakazam!”

Sometimes, between siblings or close friends, words take on meanings that can’t easily be explained to other people. They become like inside jokes—inside words, as it were. After the elevator episode, bad word became Clay and his brother’s inside word for magic word. 

Also for code word and for password and for any other word that had some unique power or significance. For any word that did something.“Can you think of a bad word for me?” 

Clay’s brother would ask before making a coin disappear behind his hand or before pulling a scarf out of Clay’s ear. “What’s the bad word?” Clay would demand, blocking his brother’s access to the refrigerator or bathroom. As Clay grew older and became more and more adept at magic tricks himself (possibly more adept than his brother, although please don’t tell anyone I said so), bad word maintained its special meaning. 

“Hey, bad man, what’s the bad word?” they would ask each other in greeting. When they left coded messages for each other, they would leave hints about the bad word needed to decode the message. When they did magic shows for their parents or friends, they called themselves the Bad Brothers. 

Bad was their bond. Then, around the time Clay turned eleven, his brother pulled off the biggest, baddest magic trick of all: He disappeared, with little warning and no explanation. That was almost two years ago. And still Clay would sometimes wonder what he had done to drive his brother away. What had he said? What bad word had he uttered without knowing it? And what bad magic would make his brother come back?

CHAPTER ONE
MAGIC SUCKS

Clay was not the type of person who would want a book written about him. I may as well admit that now.
Go ahead, judge me. Call me names. Curse me and the horse I wrote in on. But there it is.

He wasn’t shy exactly, but these days, at the age of twelve, almost thirteen, he liked to keep a low profile. He slouched in his chair. He hid his face in a comic book or skateboard magazine. He wore a hoodie, even on warm days. It wasn’t that he had a big nose or funny ears or horrible acne; I may be biased, but I think he was almost handsome, in a dried-snot-on-his-sleeve sort of way. It was just that he preferred not to attract attention. Just being looked at for longer than a moment or two made him start jiggling his knee. I can only guess what Clay would have thought about being scrutinized for almost four hundred pages.

Still, it happens to everyone occasionally. Being looked at, I mean.*
On the morning to which I now turn, the morning Clay’s life began to tumble helplessly out of control, on that morning, kids kept looking at Clay, not just once or twice, but repeatedly, and he had no idea why.

It started as soon as he got to school. The staring and the whispering. The first few kids he caught turned away so fast that he almost thought he’d imagined it. But the next few were bolder; they openly ogled and snickered. One girl he knew just looked at him and shook her head. Two boys he couldn’t remember seeing before gave him a thumbs-up. And that was even more alarming. After he stowed his skateboard in his locker, Clay ducked into the bathroom and examined himself in the mirror. There were no boogers hanging from his nose. His fly wasn’t open.

His hair was a mess, as usual, but it was hidden under his hoodie. He could see nothing wrong. Nothing that wasn’t always wrong, anyway. Had somebody been spreading rumors about him? Had he been mistaken for someone else? It made no sense. Clay’s first class, language arts, was on the ground floor with an entrance directly off the schoolyard next to the basketball court. When he walked up, a half dozen kids were already standing around, talking in hushed voices. While the others took a few steps back, Clay’s best friend, Gideon, stepped right up to Clay. 

“Okay, yeah, sure, it’s kind of… awesome? And I’m kind of… impressed?” said Gideon.

“And I know I’m always saying you should just do this, like what are you waiting for, but here? Now? At school? Seriously?”

Gideon had this odd way of speaking so that it always sounded as if he were in the middle of a conversation; it was a little hard to follow, even for Clay.

“I mean, do you have a death wish?” Gideon persisted.

“Or are you just totally certifiable?”

“What are you talking about?” Clay asked. 

“Why is everybody—?” He faltered. 

“What the—?”Behind Gideon, on the outside wall of their classroom, there was a freshly painted graffiti mural, or “bomb” as they are sometimes called.

As soon as he saw the mural, Clay’s leg started to jiggle. He felt dizzy. He thought he might puke.

MAGIC SUCKS!

it said, in big black bubble letters.

Underneath was a small tag, the signature of the artist:

CLAY

“Don’t worry—I took a picture,” said Gideon, holding up his phone. 

“Yeah, they’ll kick you out of school, and yeah, you’ll have no future, and yeah, your parents will kill you, but at least your words will live forever, right?”

The name, the lettering style, the entire mural was unmistakably, unquestionably, undeniably Clay’s.

The trouble was, the mural wasn’t his. He hadn’t painted it. And he had no idea how it had gotten there.

It was as if the mural had appeared by magic. Very sucky magic.

CHAPTER TWO
A SCHOOL PLAY

While the mural might not have been Clay’s, the now-immortal words MAGIC SUCKS! were very much his own. 

It was just that he’d written them elsewhere.

On paper. Not stucco.

Like many great works of literature—and for all I know, like many great works of graffiti art as well—Clay’s words (all two of them!) were inspired by the greatest of all wordsmiths, William Shakespeare. I’m not trying to impress you. Okay, maybe I am trying to impress you. But it’s true nonetheless. Allow me to explain: Every spring, the sixth graders at Clay’s school put on a Shakespeare play. 

Depending on the kind of student you were, it was either the highlight of your educational career or a major source of dread. For Clay, as you might guess, it was mainly the latter. Most years, the sixth graders chose to perform Macbeth, because it has witches and bloody hands; or A Midsummer Night’s Dream, because it has fairies and a man with the head of a donkey, or, as the students always delighted in calling it, the head of an “ass.”*

This year, a new language arts teacher, Mr. Bailey, had come to school. To his students’ chagrin, he had insisted on choosing the play himself: The Tempest. He’d even cast himself as the lead! 

THE TEMPEST
BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
STARRING 
MR. E BAILEY
AND HIS SIXTH GRADE STUDENTS

It hardly seemed fair. By now I’m sure you’ve read every one of Shakespeare’s plays many times over. (If you haven’t, I insist you put down this book and start immediately.) But just in case you’re experiencing an inexplicable lapse in memory, I will remind you that The Tempest is about a sorcerer named Prospero who is stranded on a tropical island with his daughter. There is a storm. There is a shipwreck. There is a monster. There is romance. There is magic. There is mayhem. The usual story stuff. Clay liked the play well enough. At least he liked the opening, with all the crashing thunder and lightning and with the big cardboard ship that got destroyed in the first few minutes of the show. (Somehow, the fact that he’d painted the ship himself made the destruction all the more satisfying.)

What he disliked was his part: Antonio, Prospero’s conniving younger brother. In Clay’s opinion, the best roles were Ariel, the tree spirit who casts spells on everyone (not that Clay wanted to wear Ariel’s green sparkle tights!*), and Caliban, the monster who is enslaved by Prospero. Gideon played Caliban. On opening night, Clay watched in envy as his friend, his face caked with awesomely gruesome Halloween makeup, growled and scowled his way across the stage, cursing everyone in his path.* As Antonio, Clay didn’t get to do much at all. In the play’s last act, Prospero forgives Antonio for having stolen his dukedom, but Antonio never gets to apologize, or defend himself, or even curse like Caliban.

Instead, Clay had to stand on the side of the stage next to the smoke machine, listening to the old sorcerer’s pompous speeches while trying to forget there was an audience watching his every move. As the play went on and his eyes started to sting from the smoke, Clay felt increasingly fidgety. 

And increasingly strange. Whenever he looked at Mr. Bailey, Clay didn’t see his language arts teacher; he didn’t even see the character Mr. Bailey was playing, Antonio’s older brother, Prospero. He saw his own real-life older brother. The brother who had left almost two years earlier. The brother Clay was doing his best to forget. He could almost hear that funny humming sound his brother made—hmmgh—and his brother’s voice saying, “How ’bout that?” 

His brother was haunting him—through Shakespeare! Toward the end of The Tempest, after Prospero has magically manipulated everyone into doing his bidding, as if they were all puppets in his personal puppet show, the magician renounces magic forever:

This rough magic I here abjure, 
I’ll break my staff, 
Bury it certain fathoms in the earth,
And, deeper than did ever plummet sound,
I’ll drown my book.*

“Liar,” blurted Clay. “You’ll never give up magic. You don’t care about anything else—” 

“Shh!” Gideon whispered from the wings. 

Clay blushed red. He hadn’t realized he was speaking aloud. He wasn’t even sure whom he’d been speaking to: Mr. Bailey or Prospero or his brother. 

He looked around. Everybody was focused on Mr. Bailey. As far as Clay could tell, nobody else had heard him. He sighed—silently—with relief.

“And stop jiggling!” Gideon added. Clay blushed redder. And willed his knee to stop bobbing up and down.

“You’re jiggling again.”

A week later, Clay and Gideon were sitting next to each other in Mr. Bailey’s class, working on essays about the play. 
It was almost the end of the year and everyone was writing at top speed, as if every syllable brought them closer to summer vacation.

Everyone except Clay. Gideon poked him in the leg.

“Dude, your knee!” 

“Sorry,” Clay muttered. Clay, as you may have noticed by now, was a jiggler. For as long as he could remember, he’d had a mysterious restless energy that kept him in constant motion. It wasn’t just his knees. He twiddled his thumbs… tapped his toes… 

“Clay, a pencil is for writing,” called Mr. Bailey from across the room. “Not wiggling!”… and wiggled his pencils.

“Um… thinking!”

The exception was when he was skateboarding.

With wheels moving below, Clay’s body relaxed and his mind was able to focus.

Unfortunately, skateboards weren’t allowed in the classroom. Holding his knee down with one hand, and his pencil down with the other, Clay made himself look at the piece of paper on his desk. The paper was blank, and the essay was due in ten minutes. 

“Nine more minutes, everybody,” Mr. Bailey said to the room. Make that nine minutes. Clay glanced at the chalkboard: 

Discuss the role of magic in THE TEMPEST. Why does Prospero break his staff and drown his magic book at the end? If you had magic powers, would you do the same? 

What was it about this question? Why was it so difficult for him to answer? And why did it make his leg jiggle uncontrollably? As the rest of the class filed out, Clay walked over to Mr. Bailey’s desk, which was piled so high with books that Clay had to look over them to see his teacher. 

Mr. Bailey was a short, plump man with a pink face and a mutton-chop beard. Today, as was not unusual, he was wearing a knit vest and leather sandals with purple socks. If he looked like a magical character, it wasn’t Shakespeare’s fierce wizard Prospero; it was Tolkien’s harmless hobbit Bilbo.

Mutely, Clay held up his empty sheet of paper.

“What’s this?” bellowed Mr. Bailey, standing up but not taking the paper. 

“Writer’s block?”

Despite his small stature, Mr. Bailey had a loud, booming voice, developed, he had bragged to his students more than once, during his many years on the stage.

“Uh-huh,” said Clay, bouncing on his toes (which is a double-leg jiggle, if you think about it). Mr. Bailey nodded. 

“Actually, I’ve always thought block wasn’t the right word. It’s more of a knot, wouldn’t you say?”

“Uh-huh.” 

“Or maybe a net,” suggested Mr. Bailey, philosophically.

“A net one gets all knotted up inside.” 

“Uh-huh.”

“But the point is, young man, you are unable to write.”

“Uh-huh.” 

“Why?” asked Mr. Bailey, leaning toward Clay across the piles of books.

“Uh-huh,” said Clay, taking a step back. 

“Wait, what?” “Why can’t you write?” asked Mr. Bailey, leaning farther. A few books toppled over, but he took no notice. 

“Is it the subject?” Clay squirmed. “I don’t know. I mean, I don’t even believe in magic.” 

“Do you have to believe in something to write about it?” 

“No, I guess not,” said Clay.

“Well then…?”

Clay hesitated. How to explain? 

“My older brother, when I was little, he used to do all these tricks—you know, card tricks, coin tricks, hat tricks. I figured them all out eventually. Magicians just say a bunch of stuff to make you think they’re doing something they’re not. They’re liars. Cheese-wizards.

”Mr. Bailey laughed, as if this were a great joke. “Cheese-wizards? I think you’re confusing magic-show magic with magic in Shakespeare’s time. In those days, magic was taken very seriously.”

“What’s the difference? The whole idea of magic is fake. It’s all cheese-wizardry.”

“Well, write that, if you must,” said Mr. Bailey.

“I can’t,” said Clay. “My… brain won’t let me.”

Mr. Bailey regarded Clay over his desk. “I’ve heard teachers complain that you are developing an attitude problem, Clay. Is this what they’re talking about?” Clay shrugged, forcing himself not to look away. 

He didn’t think he had an attitude problem; he thought he had an honesty problem. The problem was, he didn’t know how not to be honest. Clay had exceptionally big eyes as well as wild, furry, half-curly hair. When he stared without blinking—a talent he had developed at a young age to irritate his older brother—the effect was quite startling. He looked like a forest animal. Discomfited, Mr. Bailey was the first to look down.

“I think I have something that might help—” 

From under his desk, Mr. Bailey slid out a large cardboard box. Spilling out of the top was the velvet robe he had worn in The Tempest, and sticking out of the robe was the gnarled piece of wood that had served as his magic staff. 

For a second, Clay thought his teacher might give him the staff—either that or hit him over the head with it. 

But Mr. Bailey put the staff aside and started pulling out more props from the play.

“Ah, here we are—” Smiling, Mr. Bailey handed Clay a smallish book covered with cracked rust-red leather. Inset in the center of the cover was a tiny triangular mirror. It took a moment for Clay to recognize what he was looking at.

Prospero’s magic book. The book Prospero drowns at the end of The Tempest. Clay had never seen it up close before. 

“Thanks, but, um, are you sure you won’t need this?” asked Clay. “What if you do the play again?” 

Mr. Bailey waved his hand dismissively. “Once I’ve played a role, it’s done. The character becomes part of me.”

Clay opened the book—or tried to. The pages of the book had dried together, and Clay had to pry them apart in order to look inside. Though old and worn, the pages were blank save for a few stains and some yellowing near the edges.Mr. Bailey told Clay he didn’t have to write about The Tempest. As long as he wrote something—anything—in the journal, he would get class credit.

“Like what?” asked Clay, peering into the tiny mirror. 

His eye peered back at him. He had the odd sensation that he was spying on himself.

“It doesn’t matter—I don’t even have to read it,” said Mr. Bailey. “But how can you not read it if you look at it?”

Clay thought his logic was irrefutable, but Mr. Bailey just chuckled. “Believe me, I have a lot of practice ignoring things that students write.”

He sat down and put his sandaled feet up on his desk, satisfied that the problem was solved.

“Did I ever tell you about the time I played King Lear? Now that was a performance!…” 

As Mr. Bailey told him about the trials and tribulations of playing Shakespeare’s mad king, Clay kept trying to excuse himself.

To no avail.

CHAPTER THREE

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

That afternoon, when he got home from school, Clay leaned his skateboard against the wall of his bedroom and sat down at his desk—which was actually a drafting table.

For somebody with writer’s block, a casual observer might have noted, Clay sure wrote a lot. His desk, his skateboard, the wall his skateboard was leaning against, almost every surface in the room was covered with Clay’s writing.

I say writing, but mostly it was his name written again and again. 

Or variations, like 

CLAYMASTER
    or CLAYMATION
      or CLAYDO

Sometimes his name appeared as a simple tag. Other times it was written in twisting three-dimensional letters. In the most elaborate versions, the letter Y was depicted as a fist squeezing clay. More than anything, Clay’s walls resembled a graffiti artist’s sketchbook.

A talented graffiti artist’s sketchbook, I would add. (I’m told hands are notoriously difficult to draw.) But as I said, I may be biased. As to whether Clay had ever brought one of his graffiti pieces to life somewhere else—on a school wall, for example—the answer is no. 

At least, not yet. He pored over pictures of vintage graffiti art. He hunted for murals beneath freeway overpasses. And lately, at Gideon’s instigation, he and Gideon had started following around some older kids who had an active graffiti crew (not that the older kids ever tolerated them for very long). 

But whether it was due to moral qualms or fear of being caught or just his cautious not-quite-thirteen-year-old nature, Clay had yet to write on a single wall outside of his room. Of course, that doesn’t mean he didn’t plan to. Clay pulled the journal out of his backpack and took a pen out of his drawer, ready to write whatever nonsense came to mind.

As soon as he uncapped the pen, it exploded, spraying ink in every direction. A big black splat landed on the red cover of the journal.

“Aaargh!” 

The pen was a “magic” pen—a gag gift—given to him by his brother four years earlier.
“Figures,” Clay grumbled.

All the gifts his brother gave him exploded—whether they were supposed to or not.

Shaking his head in annoyance, Clay threw the pen to the floor, then wiped off the journal with a tissue. A smeared, star-shaped stain remained.

“Oh, great.” 

He grabbed a fat black marker off a shelf and opened the journal.

MAGIC SUCKS!

he wrote in swollen bubble letters. As he dotted the exclamation mark, Clay imagined that he saw a blue flame erupt—and for a flickering second he saw the page fill with words.

He blinked, and the page went blank again. I must be getting tired, he thought, rubbing his eyes. He tagged the page quickly—CLAY—then closed the journal. There was nothing more to say. When Clay arrived at school the next morning, he still hadn’t decided whether he was going to show Mr. Bailey the journal. 

It might be wiser, Clay thought, to write something longer, without the word sucks in it. The last thing he expected was that the whole school would see his journal entry blown up on a wall. 

MAGIC SUCKS! 
CLAY

The words on the wall were nearly identical to those he’d written the night before—the only difference being that they were bigger—much, much bigger. It looked as though somebody had scanned Clay’s journal, then run Mr. Bailey’s wall through a giant printer. 

Clay couldn’t understand it. Had somebody snuck into his room in the middle of the night, taken his journal out of his backpack, copied it onto Mr. Bailey’s wall, then returned the journal—all without waking Clay up? 

He couldn’t think of anybody who hated him enough to go to all that trouble. He felt weirdly exposed, as if it were a long confessional journal entry, not just two words, that had been copied onto the wall. When Mr. Bailey found him, the bell was ringing and Clay was still staring at the wall, repeatedly tapping his journal as though it might eventually reveal the explanation for the mystery mural. 

He snapped the journal shut, but he was too late.

“Give that to me,” said Mr. Bailey, who suddenly looked a lot less like a hobbit and a lot more like an angry middle school teacher.

Biting his lip, Clay handed him the journal. Mr. Bailey opened it to the offending page.

“I’m very surprised, Clay,” said Mr. Bailey, glancing from the journal to the wall and back again. The effort to keep his fury in check was making his cheeks red and puffy. 

“Writing this in a journal is one thing, but on a wall…?”

“I didn’t do it—”

“Is there something you’re upset about? Something going on at home, maybe?”

“I said I didn’t do it—”

“It will be better for you in the long run if you admit it now,” said Mr. Bailey, his cheeks getting bigger and redder by the second. 

He was beginning to resemble a blowfish.

“But I didn’t—”Mr. Bailey held up his hand. 

“Save it for the Head of School—”

“Can I at least have the journal back?” said Clay. 

The journal was the one clue he had about the writing on the wall. 

The one thing that might help him clear his name.

“Administration office, now!” Mr. Bailey exploded, spit flying everywhere.

Clay walked away, his whole body quivering with anger and confusion. He was about to be suspended, possibly expelled, for something he hadn’t done and couldn’t explain. Before leaving the schoolyard, he took a last look at the graffiti. From a distance, the bubble letters appeared to wriggle, snakelike, in the sunlight. His words came in and out of focus, over and over, taunting him with their message.

MAGIC SUCKS!…
MAGIC SUCKS!…
MAGIC SUCKS!…

An effect, it seemed, of the tears welling in his eyes.

CHAPTER FOUR
A FAMILY MEETING

Other families had Friday night dinner; Clay’s family had Friday night meetings.

The meetings started promptly at six o’clock and proceeded according to a strict set of rules, with each family member choosing one topic, and one topic only, for the evening.

When Clay was younger, the topics he chose most often were Spider-Man, the Hulk, and whatever magic trick his brother had most recently taught him.

Lately, he had started keeping his personal enthusiasms to himself. For the family meetings he chose more practical topics, like how he needed a trip slip signed, or how he needed new sneakers, or how he hadn’t been to the dentist in over three years.

The fact that he had to bring these things up at a meeting tells you most of what you need to know about his family. Outside of the meetings, I’m afraid to say, they didn’t get much family business done, or even spend much time together not getting done the business that they were not getting done. It hadn’t always been that way. 

Before Clay was born, things were very different. Or so Clay was made to understand by Max-Ernest. Max-Ernest, as you might surmise, was Clay’s older brother, and somebody I am intimately familiar with.*

You see, their parents were convinced that they had been too controlling of Max-Ernest when Max-Ernest was little (true). They felt they had overworried, overscheduled, and generally overparented him (also true), and that as a result Max-Ernest was an overanxious person (I won’t judge).

When their second son, Paul-Clay (as Clay was then called), was born, they decided to reverse course and take a more hands-off approach.

Their new child, they declared, would parent himself. The freedom they gave Clay was great when it came to such things as choosing when to go to bed or how many desserts to have. It was not so great when it came to things like, say, trip slips, footwear, or dental care. 

While he was still living at home, Max-Ernest gave his younger brother as much attention as an overly cerebral extremely smart and self-absorbed very busy person like Max-Ernest was capable of giving. But there was only so much he could do, not being Clay’s legal guardian. The Friday night meetings were Max-Ernest’s idea.

A way of ensuring that their family ship kept sailing. When Max-Ernest first left for college, he attended a school not very far away, and he always came home on Friday nights. Even after he transferred to a school much farther afield, he kept contributing to the family meetings via weekly postcards. 

The cards always contained a riddle for Clay to solve (“What travels the world but never leaves its corner? Hint: There’s one on this postcard.”) or an odd fact for Clay to uncover (“What is the smallest city in the smallest country in the world? Hint: They are one and the same.”). 

Clay didn’t always love his brother’s riddles and word games (they were usually too silly for Clay, or too difficult, or both); nonetheless, getting a postcard from his brother was the highlight of Clay’s week.

Or had been, until the day, almost two years ago now, when that awful card came:

Dear family,

You will not hear from me for a while. Do not worry.
Love, M-E

Clay looked in vain for hidden clues and secret messages—for a “bad word” that would reveal the note’s true meaning—but he didn’t find any.

As far as he could tell, the message was no more or less than it seemed: a good-bye. The picture on the card was of a rabbit sticking its head out of a top hat, and Clay assumed this meant that Max-Ernest intended to go on the road as a magician, but he had no way of knowing for certain.

Not a single card from Max-Ernest had arrived since, not even on Clay’s twelfth birthday. 

Most parents, Clay knew, would have made more of an effort to find a missing son. But when he approached his parents about it, they pointed out that Max-Ernest was over eighteen and free to make his own choices.

“Wouldn’t you want us to respect your choices?” said his mother. 

“We expect you to respect ours.”

“There’s a saying, Clay,” said his father. 

“When you love someone, let them go.” Clay thought his parents were taking that saying too literally, but nothing he said would sway them. 

For a while, Clay tried to take up the search himself. Alas, Max-Ernest had a deep distrust of technology, and there was no way to contact him electronically that Clay knew of. He did have a physical address for his brother—in Barcelona—and he sent several letters, but they were returned unopened. 

Next, Clay tried contacting Max-Ernest’s friends. They’d all changed their e-mail addresses and phone numbers several times, but finally Clay was able to get a message to Max-Ernest’s old friend Cass. 

She replied through her mother that Clay shouldn’t worry, Max-Ernest was fine. That settled it for Clay.

If his brother had cared enough, he would have contacted Clay by now. 

Obviously, their relationship was no longer very important, if it had ever been.

It was around that time that Clay dropped the Paul in Paul-Clay and started calling himself simply Clay.* 

He also stopped being interested in magic and started getting interested in other things, like skateboarding and, more significant for our story, graffiti. Tonight, as always, Clay had printed a copy of the meeting agenda. It sat on the dinner table in front of him, next to a notebook computer and the frozen pizza he had heated up for himself. 

At his feet was his skateboard, which he idly kicked back and forth.

FRIDAY NIGHT MEETING
1. Clay’s act of vandalism—causes (Mom)
2. Clay’s act of vandalism—consequences (Dad)
3. Clay’s alleged act of vandalism—who really did it? (Clay)

As soon as his father sat down, Clay hit the table with his spoon. It was his turn to chair the family meeting, which in this case was rather like officiating at his own funeral.

“This meeting is now called to order,” he said by rote. He looked at the notebook computer propped up on the table next to him.

“Mom?”

“Thank you, Clay,” said his mother on the computer screen.

“First, I want you to know we understand what you’ve done. The impulse to write on walls is as old as mankind.” Clay’s father nodded.

“It’s a way of saying, See, world, I am here! For a boy entering adolescence, this kind of self-expression is very powerful.”

“And beautiful. Just think of those wonderful cave paintings at Lascaux!” Clay’s mother smiled at her husband. 

“You remember?”

“How could I forget?” He beamed at the computer, then turned to Clay.

 “As for graffiti, the word is Italian. First used to describe inscriptions found in the ruins of Pompeii. Another great place to visit!” he added, turning back to his wife.

“What is it about volcanoes…?” Clay’s mother blushed on-screen.

“Not now, honey!” Although technically they lived together, Clay’s parents could never be in each other’s presence for very long without fighting. 

Thus, they took turns attending the family meeting in person, with one or the other always attending in pixelated form.

While this arrangement kept things civil, it had its downside.

For reasons Clay could never discern, physical separation always seemed to inspire romantic feelings in his parents.

“Um, guys, can I say something?” asked Clay.

“Of course; you know you can say anything to us,” said his father.

“That’s why we’re here,” said his mother (although strictly speaking, they weren’t in the same place).

“I tried to tell you guys when I called from school. The graffiti, I—I didn’t write it,” Clay stammered.

 “Well, I wrote it—just not on that wall.

”Clay did his best to explain, but his parents, perhaps understandably, were very skeptical.

“Clay, you know we aren’t here to judge, right?” said his father.

 “That’s not what this is about.”

“All we ask is for your honesty,” said his mother.

“But I am being honest! I wouldn’t do that—it’s whacked.”

Clay’s knee jiggled wildly under the table, sending his skateboard this way and that.

“It’s very disappointing that you don’t feel you can confide in us,” said his father.

“Are you afraid we will withhold love from you if you tell us the truth?” asked his mother.

Clay felt his face reddening.

His parents were psychologists, and he hated it when they analyzed his emotions.

“Maybe you’d like to talk about this with another therapist, someone who isn’t one of your parents,” suggested his father.

“What’s the point of talking at all if you’re not going to believe me!”

Clay’s parents looked at him askance.

He had spoken rather loudly.

“Never mind. Just forget it,” said Clay through gritted teeth.

“It doesn’t matter whether I did it anyway.”

He took a bite of pizza and chewed furiously.

“What matters, then?” demanded his father.

“That the school thinks I did. And now you have to figure out a punishment.”

“Let’s not use the word punishment,” said Clay’s father.

“Let’s use the word consequence.”

“Whatever—if I don’t have one, they’re not letting me into seventh grade.”

Already, he had been compelled to paint over the graffiti, and he had been suspended for the remaining week of school.

However, the school had made it clear that some further action must be taken if Clay was ever going to return.

“All right, Clay, have it your way,” said Clay’s mother, as if she were indulging him in a meaningless diversion.

“What is to be your consequence?”

Clay was very curious—in a morbid sort of way—to hear the answer to this question.

His parents had very little experience disciplining him, if any. 

As Clay would have been the first to admit, this was not because his behavior was especially good (although, I hasten to add, his behavior wasn’t especially bad); it was because his parents considered themselves too enlightened for the old-fashioned reward-and-punishment system.

“Well, Clay?” prompted his father.

Clay blinked in disbelief.

“You want me to come up with my own punishment?”

“Naturally,” said his mother.

“It won’t mean anything if we decide for you,” said his father.

Clay felt perversely disappointed.

Of course, he didn’t want to be punished, but he’d hoped that for once his parents would act more like normal parents.

“Well…” he said, stalling.

“Don’t parents usually ground their kids when they do something like write on a wall?”

Clay’s mother looked out at him from the computer screen as if he had suggested a trip to Mars.

“Should we ground you, Clay? Is that what you want?” Clay shrugged.

“If I wanted you to, wouldn’t that kinda defeat the purpose?”

Before anybody could say anything more, the doorbell rang, or more accurately, buzzed. 

Glad of an excuse to leave the room, Clay leaped up to answer.

CHAPTER FIVE
A SUMMER CAMP FOR STRUGGLING YOUTH

When Clay opened the door, he saw a large envelope resting on the doorstep.

His heart started beating fast; it had to be from his brother.

Who else would send mail timed to arrive in the middle of a Friday night meeting?

Clay’s mind raced with possibilities as he picked up the envelope.

Would Max-Ernest at last tell them where he was?

Might he even announce that he was coming home?

But then he saw the return address: Mr. Bailey. 

No doubt the envelope contained a letter repeating the threat about his not getting to enter seventh grade.

No longer very excited, Clay walked back to the dining room and emptied the envelope onto the table.

There was no letter, only a stack of summer camp brochures.

A Post-it was attached: 

Maybe one of these is right for Clay?
Regards, E. Bailey.

Camp.

Clay had never gone to camp. 

He’d never even gone on a camping trip.

Camp was something that other families did.

Like Little League.

Or piano lessons. 

Or family dinner.

Why was Mr. Bailey suggesting camp?

As soon as he started looking closely at the brochures, Clay saw the answer: All the camps were designed for kids with problems of one sort or another.

The first offered to “treat mood disorders through music.”

Which sounded fine except Clay didn’t have a mood disorder—or at least not a diagnosed mood disorder, agreed his parents—and he didn’t play any musical instruments.

The next was a high-security facility for violent and “seriously at-risk” youth, with “on-call psychiatric assistance.” 

(“I already have on-call psychiatric assistance,” Clay pointed out to his parents. “You guys.”)

Another offered “rehabilitation through construction”—in other words, Clay thought, slave labor.

The most intriguing brochure featured a photo of a lake backed by a waterfall and, in the far distance, a smoking volcano.

A llama grazed in the foreground. 

At his mother’s request, Clay read the text aloud. 

Earth Ranch
A SUMMER CAMP FOR STRUGGLING YOUTH
Hike a volcano, feed a llama, cook over an open fire....
Has your child made poor choices? Behaved aggressively or inappropriately? Stolen or defaced other people's property? Refused to listen to reason?
Whether your child has been in trouble by the police or just the school principal, early intervention is the key to future success.
Earth Ranch, a summer camp on rugged and remote Price Island, helps children outgrow problem behaviors and reach their full potential away from the temptations of modern technology. Imagine: a summer with no computers, no television, no video games, not even a cell phone. Through wilderness survival training, animal husbandry, and simple comradeship, our campers learn to value their environment, their community, and, most important, themselves. Earth Ranch is a completely self-sustaining ranch and farm; we grow our own food, produce our own energy, and recycle our own waste. We are a model for living responsibly in the twenty-first century. This is life the way nature intended. Sign up your child today!

Clay looked up from the brochure.

“Animal husbandry? No way am I being some animal’s husband.”*

“There’s no need to joke about it,” said Clay’s father.

“This camp could be exactly what we’re looking for.”

“Don’t tell me you want me to go to this place!” exclaimed Clay. 

“It’s for delinquents.” Clay’s mother nodded.

“Didn’t you say you wanted a consequence?”

“But I’ve already got summer plans,” Clay protested.

“What plans?” asked his father.

“To go to the skate park. I’m turning thirteen, remember? I’ll finally be old enough to go without an adult.

”Near the skate park, there was a famously treacherous hill—called Kill Hill by skaters—that Clay and Gideon had vowed to conquer that summer. He didn’t feel it was necessary to mention Kill Hill to his parents, however.“

That’s not a summer plan,” said his mother. “That’s a one-hour activity.”

“Besides, you’re not turning thirteen for weeks,” said his father.

Clay seethed as he ate a second slice of the now cold and stringy pizza.

Why would they want to send him to a camp for bad kids, or “struggling youth,” as the camp called them?

 It was one thing for his teacher to think he was a degenerate, but didn’t his parents think better of him?

Or did they only pretend to be so permissive and accepting?

He almost wished he really had been the one to write on Mr. Bailey’s wall; it would serve his parents right.

Later, Clay hunted online for some incriminating piece of information about Earth Ranch or Price Island that would convince his parents to let him stay home.

Here is what he learned: 

Price Island is a small private island in the Pacific Ocean, approximately eighty miles northwest of Hawaii. The island belongs to the estate of the deceased Wall Street financier Randolph Price and is home to Mount Forge, one of the few privately owned active volcanoes in the world. An eccentric collector of art, books, and other curiosities, Price spent a vast fortune building a palace, which was destroyed in minutes when the volcano erupted. Currently, the island is believed to be uninhabited. 

About Earth Ranch itself, Clay could find no information at all.

He looked at travel websites, summer camp websites, information-for-parents-of-troubled-kids websites, but nary a mention did he see.

He called his father back into the dining room and called up his mother on his computer.

Both his parents had been up late working; neither liked being disturbed.

“Guess what—Earth Ranch is totally off the grid!” he said.

“What kind of camp doesn’t have a website?”

“An old-fashioned camp,” said his father.

“Yeah, too old-fashioned,” said Clay.

“It probably doesn’t have flushing toilets.”

“Your father and I have discussed it,” said Clay’s mother.

“We’ve decided a consequence isn’t such a bad idea after all.”

“It’s not the graffiti,” said his father.

“It’s your failure to take responsibility.”

“There has clearly been a breakdown in our communication,” said his mother. 

“Maybe some time apart will help.”

“Great,” said Clay, incensed.

“You never punish me—sorry, consequence me—once in my whole life, and suddenly you’re sending me to Alcatraz… on a volcano… with llamas!”

That night, Clay dreamed about the journal.

But this time when he looked into the tiny mirror on the front, he didn’t see himself; he saw a volcano exploding in flames.

Rivers of lava gushed in all directions, until the lava’s red glow eclipsed everything else and merged with the journal’s red cover.

CHAPTER SIX 
A LOOSE SCREW

I won’t tell you how Clay spent his next week—not because he did anything you wouldn’t approve of, but because he hardly did anything at all. 

Except fret about where he would be spending his summer and about whether he’d have a school to return to in the fall.

When the Earth Ranch enrollment packet arrived, it did nothing to assuage Clay’s anxiety.

Indeed, the brief letter that accompanied the packet raised more questions than it answered.

While noting that Clay had applied late and would be enrolling a week after the other campers, the letter said that the camp would make an exception for him because of the “special circumstances” of his case.

Furthermore, his entire fee would be covered by the estate of Randolph Price, the camp’s founder.

What special circumstances, Clay wondered.

Weren’t there kids who were more deserving than he was?

Disabled kids, maybe, or poor kids?

Kids who were better students?

Better athletes? 

Better artists? 

Or, if they wanted problem kids, weren’t there worse criminals, tougher cases to crack?

What was most peculiar, however, was the packing list—which was quite long, considering everything was supposed to fit in a single backpack.

The list included routine items like a water bottle, sunscreen, flashlight, hat, bandanna, socks, and underwear, but also some rather unexpected and even alarming things, such as a gas mask, a life jacket, and a bag of carrot tops.

The last item, carrot tops, was underlined, and accompanied by a handwritten notation saying it was very important that the carrot tops be kept handy during Clay’s trip to camp.

“You think I’m going to be feeding rabbits, or is it for dusting furniture?” Clay asked his parents at their next family meeting.

“Maybe the carrot tops are for recycling?” suggested his father, whose turn it was to participate via computer screen.

“I think you mean composting,” said his mother, now in the room with Clay.

“I think this camp is crazy,” said Clay.

Travel instructions were equally specific.

In three days’ time, a parent was to take him as far as the seaport, where he was to meet a privately chartered seaplane at dock sixteen at precisely 9:12 a.m. 

Clay was to be wearing his life jacket and an old pair of sneakers.

“It’s like they’re expecting the plane to crash into the sea!” Clay complained.

Predictably, Clay’s parents couldn’t agree on who would take him to the plane.

Unpredictably, and at the last minute, both elected to escort him (in person); and they arrived at the gate to dock sixteen as a surprisingly normal-looking family of three.

As his parents walked down the ramp to the dock, Clay lingered, inspecting the various tags scratched into the gate.

Then he jumped onto his skateboard for one last ride.

The ramp wasn’t exactly Kill Hill, but it would have to do for this summer. 

(In the Earth Ranch enrollment packet, skateboards were listed very clearly among forbidden items.) 

He sailed down to the dock and sped across the wooden boards, vibrating like a jackhammer.

When he got close to the end of the dock, he popped the tail of his board, attaining a last fleeting moment of air, then skidded to a stop, his face flushed.

He glanced at his parents to see if they were watching—would they be angry or impressed?—but their attention was fixed on the object in front of them.

Clay brushed away his disappointment; it wasn’t the first time their attention was elsewhere.

Tethered to the end of the dock was an old seaplane with two rusty propellers and two ski-like legs.

A man with tattooed arms and a long ponytail was attacking one of the plane’s propellers with a wrench.

Next to him, a fat bulldog lazed in the sun, pink tongue glistening.

The man grunted in frustration, then gave up and threw his wrench into the sea.

Clay eyed the plane dubiously.

It looked like it would have enough trouble staying afloat on the water, let alone flying in the sky.

“Is this the plane for Price Island?” asked Clay’s father.

“Do you see any other planes?” asked the man.

“No boats, either,” said Clay’s mother. “We thought this dock was closed.”

The man grinned. A gold tooth glinted. “That’s why I dock here. Much cheaper.”

“As in free, you mean,” said Clay, smirking. “Is that even… allowed?”

“Clay!” reprimanded his father.

“I’m sure he wouldn’t dock here without permission.” Clay’s mother nodded.

“You’re going to a camp where they teach kids to respect the rule of law. I hardly think they’d hire a lawbreaker to fly you there!”

The man’s smile faded a little bit.

“Right you are, ma’am. Even so, maybe we’d better not mention this to the folks at camp, eh?” 

The pilot slapped Clay on the shoulder.

“You must be the lucky camper. I’m Skipper.” 

He gave his dog a pat on the head.

“This here’s my copilot, Gilligan.”

The bulldog took a lumbering step toward Clay and drooled all over his hand.

“Hey,” said Clay, wiping his hand on his pants.

“What about the propeller?” asked Clay’s father.

“Is there a problem?”

“Oh, just a couple loose screws…” said Skipper.

“Just kiddin’! This plane’s sturdier than a tank. Besides, a little rattling builds character, right?”

Clay seized the initiative, pulling his parents aside.

“Can I talk to you guys a second?“ 

Are you really going to make me get on that thing?” he whispered.

“You won’t get into seventh grade otherwise, remember?” said his father.

“It won’t matter what grade I’m in, if I’m dead!”

“Don’t be so dramatic, Clay,” said his mother.

Skipper whistled from beside the plane. 

“All aboard! Last call for Price Island!”

“Fine. Nice knowing you,” Clay said to his parents.

Fuming, Clay thrust his skateboard into the hands of his surprised father and headed for the plane. 

His parents were as crazy as the pilot, he decided. 

It would be a relief to get away from them.

About to step in, Clay looked at the side of the plane. 

The letters had chipped away, along with the rest of the paint, but he could just make out a name: The Tempest.

“The Tempest? Like the play?” he asked, surprised.

“No, like the plane,” said Skipper, as if Clay had suggested something idiotic. 

“It means ‘storm.’”

“I know, but it’s also the name of this Shakespeare play I was in.”

“Oh, is it now?” said Skipper mockingly.

“I didn’t know I had such a literary traveler on my hands.” He turned to his dog.

“We’ll have to mind our p’s and q’s, won’t we, Gilligan?” 

Clay smiled weakly, wishing he hadn’t said anything.

Five minutes later, Clay was wishing even more fervently that he had stayed home.

After making several sputtering circles in the water like an oversized bird learning to fly, the plane was finally airborne, but Clay was not convinced it would maintain altitude.

The cabin wasn’t pressurized or even very well sealed.

It was cold and noisy, and Clay, who had inherited a slight fear of heights from his brother, could see bits of blue water through the cracks.

He kept picturing the plane plummeting back to earth—and deep into the sea.

His life jacket around his neck, he was squeezed into the back of the plane between his backpack and a large cardboard box addressed to Jonah P—, c/o Earth Ranch, Price Island. 

At least we’re headed to the right place, Clay thought.

Gilligan, the bulldog copilot, occupied the only seat other than Skipper’s, which would have been fine except that the dog kept turning his head around and slobbering all over Clay’s neck. 

When Clay pulled away from him, he growled.

Clay tapped Skipper on the shoulder. 

The pilot pulled his right headphone away from his right ear.

“What’s that, Shakespeare?”

“Hey, you think your dog could maybe turn back around?” Clay asked, wiping dog saliva off his neck.

“His name is Gilligan.”

“Sorry. Do you think you could get Gilligan to turn around?”

“You don’t like dogs, huh, Shakespeare?”

“I like dogs; I just don’t like slobber. My name is Clay, by the way.”*

Skipper pulled his headphones down around his neck and turned to face Clay, leaving the plane’s controls free. 

The plane dipped slightly, and Clay wondered nervously if it had an autopilot function.

“You think people don’t slobber… Shakespeare?” Skipper asked. 

His bloodshot eyes stared at Clay.“Sure they do, but—forget it.” 

This was one time, Clay decided, when it was best not to argue.

Thankfully, Skipper turned to face the windshield and put his hands back on the controls. 

Clay noticed that Skipper’s biceps was decorated with a tattoo of a bulldog.

“Cool tattoo,” Clay said, trying to be conciliatory. 

“Looks just like him.”

“You mean Gilligan? All dogs look alike to you, don’t they?” said the pilot, insulted. 

“This isn’t Gilligan. This is my last dog, Tattoo.”

“You mean this is your last tattoo of a dog?”

“No, this is a tattoo of my last dog, Tattoo.” 

The pilot turned around, causing the plane to dip again.

“That was his name? Tattoo?” asked Clay, wishing he’d never brought it up.

“Yeah, you know, like the guy on Fantasy Island,” said the pilot.

“What’s Fantasy Island?”

“Fantasy Island. The TV show. Who doesn’t know Fantasy Island?”

“Me.”

“And I suppose you don’t know Gilligan’s Island, either, huh, Shakespeare?”*

“Nope.” Skipper groaned in disgust. 

“You know all these fancy-pants plays and you don’t even know a simple TV show? How you going to survive out on Price Island when you don’t even know Gilligan’s Island?!”

“Actually, the play The Tempest—it takes place on an island, too.”

“Oh, does it now? I guess you don’t need TV, then, after all, huh? Shakespeare thought of everything.”

That pretty much ended the conversation. 

The dog continued to drool all over Clay. 

Clay tried pulling away from him; it didn’t work.

“Try scratching his ears,” said the pilot after a few minutes. 

“He likes that.”

Sure enough, Gilligan started wagging his tail as soon as Clay started scratching behind his ears. 

Alas, he didn’t stop slobbering.

Clay woke about two and a half hours later, covered in dog drool.

“There it is. Price Island,” said the pilot, pointing out the window. 

“Your new home away from home.”

Clay craned his neck to look. 

Clouds clustered around the plane, obscuring his view. 

Ahead, where Skipper had pointed, the clouds were so thick, all Clay could see was a wall of white. 

Or grayish white.

“I can’t see anything.”

“No kidding. It’s the bloody vog.”*

“The what?”

“The vog. You really don’t know anything about where you’re going, do you, Shakespeare?”

“Why, what’s to know?”

“Who says there’s anything to know,” the pilot snapped. 

“Besides, nothing I tell you is going to do you any good now, is it?”

“Well, what’s vog?” asked Clay, who was getting increasingly nervous.

“You’re so smart, figure it out. 

Think v- word then -og word… vuh-og.”

“Vampire dog?”

“No, vog is volcanic smog.” 

The pilot shook his head. 

“Vampire dog? You really have something against dogs, don’t you?”

“No… what are you doing?”

Clay was thrown to the side as the plane entered a steeply banked turn.

“Circling the island so they know we’re here.”

“But how can they see us?” asked Clay, gripping the seat in front of him.

“They can’t. But sometimes they can hear.”

Just as the plane tilted so much that its wings were near vertical and Clay thought they were going to drop out of the sky, the vog suddenly cleared. 

Instead of all white, Clay now saw all black. 

It took a moment for him to realize he was looking at land and not ocean or outer space.

He was torn between terror of the plane falling from the sky and fascination with the forbidding sight below. 

It looked as though the entire island had been charred in a massive fire. 

Where was he going, Mordor?*

“Why’s it all black like that?” he asked when Skipper had at last righted the plane, and Clay’s heart rate had returned to normal.

“Lava. That’s all lava rock.”

“Sheesh. That must have been a gnarly eruption.”

In the vast blackness, he could just make out the twists and turns of what must once have been raging rivers of lava headed into the sea.

“What are those white squiggly things?” Clay asked.

“You’ll see.…”

As they skirted closer to the shore, the white squiggles became letters; they were written on the black rock beach like chalk letters on a blackboard. 

Clay admired them for a second. 

Then—“Wait!” he cried. 

“It says SOS! Somebody’s in trouble!”

“Sorry to disappoint you, Shakespeare, but those letters have been there for years. So whoever it was…” The pilot trailed off.

“What? What happened to them?”

“What makes you think I know?” said the pilot evasively. 

“Now hold on.…”

The plane hit the water with a tremendous splash, like a giant child doing a belly flop.

They taxied for a moment, then Skipper turned off the propellers, and the plane coasted to a stop. 

When the windows cleared of spray, Clay glanced toward shore. 

The black rock beach looked decidedly inhospitable.

“Where’s the dock?”

“There isn’t any,” said Skipper, who was already climbing out of his seat.

“You have a raft or something?” asked Clay, starting to sweat (whether from nervousness or the tropical heat, he couldn’t have said).

“A raft? What do you think this is, The Love Boat? No, don’t tell me, you never heard of The Love Boat, either,” said the pilot, opening the door.* 

“You gotta swim, Shakespeare. Or walk. It ain’t deep.”

Clay felt a rush of warm, thick tropical air as he looked out at the turquoise water.

“What about my backpack?” 

He gestured to the large backpack beside him—purchased especially for camp and already bursting at the seams.

The pilot shrugged. 

“It’ll dry.”

Before Clay could protest, Skipper threw Clay’s heavy backpack into the water.

“Hey! It’s gonna sink!”

“So get going. I don’t like hanging out here any longer than I have to.”

“Why? You make it sound like there’s something wrong with this place.”

“Just go already, will ya?”

There was no way for Clay to change into his bathing suit; it was in the backpack. 

Bracing himself, he closed his eyes and jumped out of the plane, fully dressed.

The water was surprisingly warm and, as Skipper had promised, not very deep. 

Clay’s feet hit bottom just as his head was about to go under. 

When he straightened up, he found that the water was chest-high and as clear as a swimming pool. 

He could see his sneakers digging into the sand. 

His backpack was floating nearby, slowly drifting out to sea, shoulder straps and waist belt trailing behind. 

Clay lunged for it.

As soon as Clay had secured his backpack on his back, Skipper held a large cardboard box out the airplane door. 

Clay recognized the box that had been taking up half the space on the plane.

“You’re supposed to deliver this,” the pilot shouted.

“How—?!”

“Hold up your hands!” 

Skipper tossed the box in Clay’s direction. 

Clay almost fell backward when the box landed in his hands, but somehow he managed to keep it out of the water.

He looked toward the shore; it was a good forty feet away. 

Getting there without dropping the box was not going to be easy.

It was then that a more serious problem occurred to him: “Hey, Skipper!” he shouted. “There’s nobody there.”

“You were expecting flowers and coconut drinks?”

With that, Skipper closed the door of the plane.

Cursing to himself and holding the box above his head, Clay started wading as quickly as he could—which was not very quickly—toward dry land.

“Hey, Shakespeare!” Clay turned to see Skipper waving out of an open window.

“Yeah?”

“I should probably warn you.…”

“About what?” Clay shouted.

Skipper shouted something in return, but Clay couldn’t quite make it out; the propellers were whirring again.

“Did you say, Beware—you—scary?”

Skipper shouted again, louder.

“Beware—the—you—bury?”

Clay repeated.

“Right!”

“So I’m supposed to bury something? Or not bury it?”

But by then the plane was taking off, leaving crashing waves in its wake. 

CHAPTER SEVEN
MAROONED

If you’ve ever been shipwrecked on a desert island, then you know how Clay felt. 

Me, I’ve never been shipwrecked anywhere. 

Car-wrecked, yes. 

Train-wrecked, yes. 

Shipwrecked, no. 

(Unless you count the time my cat wrecked that model sailboat I was building out of matchsticks; boy, was I mad about that!) 

So you’ll have to pardon any inaccuracies as I do my best to re-create the scene on the island after Clay waded ashore. 

Of course, having read about plenty of castaways, I do consider myself something of an expert.*

Clay stood on the black rock beach, drenched from head to toe. 

His feet sloshed in his shoes whenever he shifted his weight.

His backpack sat beside him, leaking seawater. 

The still-semidry box he was supposed to deliver to camp lay about a yard away, where he’d dropped it in relief when he finally made it to dry land.

But to what land had he made it?

Where was he?

In one direction lay an unending expanse of blue; in the other, an unending expanse of black. 

The lava had demolished everything in its wake. 

The landscape looked so lifeless, so alien, it could have been a photo taken by a Mars rover.

His eyes landed on a snaking line of white shells. 

It was the first S of the SOS sign he’d spied earlier from the plane, now only a few feet away.

The letters were about twenty feet long from top to bottom, and remarkably well preserved, considering they were so old.

It must have taken somebody a long time to collect so many shells, Clay thought. 

These were letters made by somebody very determined.

Somebody desperate.

Somebody afraid.

A castaway marooned on a tropical island, for example.

Clay felt a wave of panic overtake him. 

What was he going to do if nobody ever came? 

Try to make a shelter out of his backpack?

Spear fish to eat? 

Rub two rocks together and build a fire? 

He knew how to do exactly none of those things. 

As for drinking water, his water bottle was already half-empty.

When Clay was younger, his brother’s best friend, Cass, had been a survivalist. 

She constantly lectured Clay about disaster preparedness.

If only he had paid more attention!

Don’t freak, he told himself. 

Think. 

You may not be a survivalist, but this isn’t the first time you’ve been on your own.

Clay felt in his pocket for his wallet. 

It was wet, but still there. 

The black leather wallet was a gift from his brother—one of the few Clay had kept—and it had a secret compartment. 

Clay moved his school ID from the secret compartment to the main compartment; that way, if he perished on the sand, the person who discovered his body would be able to identify him.

The sun was getting hotter, and as his clothes dried, he could feel it burning his skin. 

In a matter of minutes, he went from being wet with seawater to wet with sweat.

A large boulder about twenty feet inland looked like it might offer some shade.

It would be a better place to wait, Clay decided. 

At least he wouldn’t get sunstroke.

He hoisted his backpack onto his back, picked up the cardboard box, and then sloshed across the black rocks in his wet shoes.

As soon as he stepped behind the boulder, Clay let out a cry of surprise.

He wasn’t alone after all.

A four-legged animal was standing in the shade of the boulder, drinking from a near-empty bucket of water. 

The animal was about the size of a pony, and he had the long ears of a rabbit, the long face of a kangaroo, and the long, shaggy brown-and-white fur of a rug in Clay’s father’s office. 

The rug, Clay remembered, came from Peru.

Duh, it’s a llama, Clay said to himself. 

A large bumblebee buzzed around the water bucket, and the llama kept twitching his head, trying to make the bee go away. 

Clay couldn’t tell whether he should approach or whether he’d be shooed away as well.

The llama was wearing a bridle with a rope attached where you might expect to find reins. 

A greeting card was hanging from his neck: 

Hola. ¿Cómo se llama? Yo me llamo Como C. Llama.

During his preschool years, Clay’s favorite cartoon had featured a Spanish-speaking boy naturalist who was always saving animals with his girl cousin, and Clay still knew enough of the language to translate:

Hello. How do you call yourself? I call myself Como C. Llama.

The llama’s name was What is your name? 

How cheesy can you get, Clay thought, smiling despite himself.

He flipped over the card. 

On the other side was a note in English:

Go west, young man. The llama will guide you.

PS—Don’t let him eat anything you didn’t personally bring with you.

So he had a guide. 

That was the good news.

The guide was a llama. 

That was the bad news.

Clay gave the llama a tentative pat on the back of the neck. 

The llama didn’t seem to mind. 

Then again, he didn’t seem to particularly like it, either.

Around the llama’s back there was a leather strap that functioned, Clay assumed, like a bridle.

Awkwardly, Clay placed the cardboard box on top of the llama and partially secured it with some of the extra string hanging from the animal’s neck. 

The now-empty water bucket he tied above the llama’s rump.

“Well, here goes nothing,” Clay muttered. 

The llama had obviously been sent as some kind of test, and there was nothing to do but try.

He tightened the waist belt of his backpack. 

Then he grabbed the llama’s harness and tried to swing himself onto the llama’s back, behind the box.

His ears flat back on his head, the llama snorted and jerked away. 

Clay landed on his backpack, belly up, arms waving, like a beetle in distress.

Before he could recover, the llama spit in his face—a big green wad of chewed grass and llama saliva.

“Yuck! Man, did you have to do that?!”*

As Clay wiped the thick spittle off his cheek, the llama sat down on his back legs, camel-style.

“Great,” said Clay, pushing himself up.

When he got to his feet, he grabbed the rope and pulled, but the llama barely blinked.

“C’mon, boy—get up!”

The llama still refused to budge.

Exasperated, Clay sat back down. 

His backpack fell from his shoulders.

“Fail… epic… flippin’… fail.”

Whoever had left the llama for him was downright cruel. 

Somebody who delighted in torture. 

And he was supposed to spend the summer under this person’s care? 

Forget it. 

When he got to camp, he was going to call his parents and demand that he go home right away.

Correction: if he got to camp.

The greeting card dangled from the llama’s furry neck, taunting Clay. 

PS—Don’t let him eat anything you didn’t personally bring with you, Clay read again.

“What’re you supposed to eat, then, my shoes? Oh—I know!”

He started digging in his backpack. 

Before Clay could pull the carrot tops all the way out, the llama grabbed the entire bunch with his mouth.

“Hey!”

As Clay yanked his hand away, the llama gulped down the carrot tops in one bite.

The llama looked expectantly at Clay.

“Sorry, I don’t have any more,” said Clay, examining his hand to confirm that he wasn’t missing any fingers.*

The llama nudged him.

“I told you. No more carrot tops.”

The llama nudged him again. 

The card around his neck flipped over.

Hola. 

¿Cómo se llama? Yo me llamo Como C. Llama.

“I know, I read that already. Your name is a joke. I get it. Like como se llama. It’s hilarious. A laugh riot. Total cheese-wizardry.”

The llama nudged him again. More like poked him. If you can poke with your mouth.

“What do you want already?” 

A funny thought crossed Clay’s mind. 

“I’m not answering, am I? You want to know my name?”

Well, it couldn’t hurt to try.

Sheepishly, he introduced himself. 

“I’m Clay. Yo me llamo Clay.”

The llama nodded his head in a way that almost looked like he was saying hello.

“Um, nice to meet you,” said Clay. 

“Mucho gusto.”

Wow, Clay thought to himself, five minutes alone on a deserted island and you’re already talking to animals! 

Next thing you’ll be having conversations with the rocks.

“Now, stand up. Please. Por favor.”

Whether because he understood or (more likely) because the bumblebee kept buzzing in his ear, the llama rose to his feet.

“Gracias,” said Clay, relieved. 

“Now let’s go—¡vámonos!”

He picked up the rope attached to the llama’s bridle and held it like a leash, then started walking along the lava field road in a direction he hoped was west. 

(He knew that the sun always sets in the west, but the sun was too high to say with certainty which way it would set.) 

The llama followed slowly but willingly behind.

“Wait, you’re supposed to be guiding me, Como, remember?” said Clay, stopping to let the llama take the lead. 

“This is the way, right?  Correctamente? Or, er, correcto?”

The llama didn’t respond, but he didn’t switch directions, either. 

He just kept going. 

Clay took this as an affirmative.

The bee circled the llama one last time, then flew away across the lava fields.

The road, which was less a road than a trail, and sometimes hardly even a trail, twisted this way and that, seemingly without rhyme or reason. 

As far as Clay could tell, they were following the coastline, but they also seemed to be rising. 

At least, that is what he judged by the tiredness in his legs.

Around them, in every direction, was lava—in ever stranger and more menacing formations. 

There were lava pits and lava towers and big, looping lava arches.

Some lava formations looked like castles. 

Others looked almost like people, lurching through the lava fields.*

Despite the heat, Clay shivered.

“What happened here, anyway? ¿Qué pasó?” he asked the llama. 

“It’s like the world was just going about its business and then—boom! Huge explosion. Full-on apocalypse. I mean, where are we? ¿Dónde estamos?” 

He gestured to his surroundings.

“I know, I know, the real question is, why am I talking in Spanish to a llama?” he said, taking a swig from his water bottle. 

“¿Por qué yo hablo español? What do you care what language I speak? You’re a llama!”

A flock of blue birds flew overhead. 

Parrots.

“Now, those guys—they’re the ones who talk, right?” Clay called out to them. 

“Hey, parrots! Hablas español or ingles? Is this the way to Earth Ranch—you know, the camp for bad kids? Hijos malos.”

The birds squawked in answer—but in a way that sounded nothing like English or Spanish or any other human language. 

Nonetheless, they were the first living things Clay had encountered on the lava trail.

Cheered, he continued walking.

As the trail began to steepen, the lava ended with unexpected, almost surreal suddenness. 

Behind, everything was black. 

Ahead, everything was green. 

A sea of grass. 

And in the distance, a forest.

A grayish bush with purplish berries grew on the side of the trail. 

The llama stopped and was about to have a nibble when Clay remembered his instructions and pulled the llama away. 

Though small, the berries looked juicy and Clay wanted to try one himself, but he decided it would be unfair to eat what the llama couldn’t. 

Besides, the berry might be poisonous.

He thought of the pilot’s cryptic warning: Beware—the—you—bury. 

Could Skipper have meant berry and not bury? 

As in, Beware, don’t you eat that berry!? 

Or maybe it was a kind of berry—a you-berry or ewe-berry? 

Or, maybe the message was just, Ewww, berries!

Another large bumblebee buzzed around the bush, irritating the llama. 

Clay tugged on the llama’s leash and kept going.

As the vegetation grew denser and denser, the air turned whiter and whiter. 

Before he knew it, Clay was ensconced in fog.

Or vog, he soon realized.

Like fog, the vog was wet and clammy; like smog, it made his eyes tear and made his throat sore.

He got the idea to put his bandanna over his mouth and he breathed more easily for a while, but then the bandanna became so wet, it stuck to his face. 

He pushed it off.

The trail broadened and merged with a shallow, mossy stream.

Following the llama, who was very deft at avoiding stepping in the water, Clay tried to pick and choose his way on the rocks, even though it was difficult to see them in the vog. 

He gave up and walked in the stream; the water was cold, but it was only ankle deep.

“How much farther, Como? Where are you taking me? ¿A dónde vamos?”

A minute later—or was it ten minutes? 

The vog had a way of erasing time—the llama suddenly stopped walking.

He stood stock-still, ears pointed straight ahead.

“What’s wrong?” Clay asked. 

“Do you hear something?”

Then Clay heard it, too: a grunting sound next to the stream.

His heart beating wildly, Clay looked around, but it was impossible to see very much. 

There were immense trees in every direction, so tall their treetops were obscured by the vog. 

It was like looking into a maze—or a misty hall of mirrors.

He’d almost decided he’d imagined the sound, when the llama reared back, pulling his leash out of Clay’s hand.

Clay heard another grrunt!!—this time bigger, deeper, and closer.

Followed by another grrrrunt!!!—this time much bigger, much deeper, and much, much closer.

And finally by another…

Grrrrrrrrrrrrunt!!!!!!!!

There was a splash of hooves… and suddenly an enormous muddy hog with long bristly hair and sharp curving tusks was barreling toward him, water spraying in all directions.

Clay tried to jump out of the way, but he tripped and fell, landing on his butt in the shallow stream. 

Terrified, Clay held his arms over his face to ward off the hog.

Luckily, the hog already had its afternoon meal caught between its teeth. 

The monstrous animal thundered past without so much as a glance in Clay’s direction, frog legs dangling from its mouth.

Eventually, Clay’s breathing returned to normal and the llama stopped trembling. 

They pushed forward, now sticking to dry land.

A mile or two farther (the distance was just as hard to judge as the time), the trail stopped at what appeared to be a root ball as big as a house.

When they came closer, Clay saw that it was a tree, but a tree engulfed in roots. 

Some roots snaked up the tree trunk; others dangled free, twisting this way and that.*

The main trail turned to the right, bending around this bizarre, inside-out, upside-down tree. 

But the llama seemed to want to take a smaller foot trail to the left that disappeared in a thicket of ferns.

While Clay debated which way to go, he put down his backpack and stretched. 

He couldn’t remember ever feeling so tired or so sore.

Modestly turning away from the llama, he peed onto one of the enormous tree roots where it met the ground. 

Other roots swayed above, repeatedly tapping him on the shoulder, as if trying to distract him from what he was doing.

Unnerved, he zipped up and turned back around—and frowned. 

Was the vog getting thicker? 

Why couldn’t he see the llama?

“Como, where are you? ¿Dónde estás?”

He walked around the tree, calling for the llama. 

There was no response. 

Then he realized his backpack was missing as well.

“Hello? Is anybody there?”

He peered nervously into the vog. 

Was he being stalked by an animal? 

Was he being hijacked by island natives? 

In a second, he feared, a net woven from sticky vines would drop down over his head, or he would be hit by an arrow tipped with the venom of a poison dart frog.*

The suspense ended when he heard a sound ricocheting through the trees.

And no, it was not the sound of an animal pouncing or a net dropping or an arrow flying.

It was the sound of laughter.

CHAPTER EIGHT

THE CREATURE WHO CAME OUT OF THE VOG

Did I scare you?”

As Clay spun around, a short human-shaped figure emerged from the vog. 

The llama, visible in soft gray silhouette, followed.

“Uh, not too much,” said Clay cautiously.

“Oh, shoot. Well, I tried.

”Laughing merrily, the newcomer tossed the llama’s leash in Clay’s direction.

“Thanks,” said Clay as he fumblingly caught it.

At first, Clay thought the mysterious creature approaching him was a boy. 

Or possibly a dwarf. 

Clay could just make out a newsboy-style cap, suspenders, and a very muddy pair of dungarees.* 

But as it came closer, Clay saw that the creature was a girl. 

A freckle-faced girl with green eyes that seemed to be darting away from him and at the same time daring him to follow. 

“You didn’t see a backpack, too, by any chance?” he asked.

“You mean this one?”

The backpack landed at Clay’s feet.

“Yeah, that one,” said Clay.

“And I think you’re missing this—”

The girl tossed him his wallet.

“That was in my pants!”

“No kidding,” said the girl, grinning. 

“Pickpocketing is easy. What you should really be impressed by is the way I snuck old Como C. away. First time I’ve ever stolen an animal. 

Think I have a future as a cattle rustler?”

“How do you know Como’s name? Are you from Earth Ranch?”

“Very astute. Your official greeter, Leira, at your service.” 

The girl bowed in a mocking fashion. 

“That’s Leira, L-E-I-R-A. Weird name, I know. What can I say? My parents are nerds.”*

Clay felt a tremendous surge of relief upon hearing that she was from Earth Ranch. 

At last, there was evidence that the camp existed and that he might eventually reach it.

Leira pointed to the tree next to them.

“By the way, this banyan tree—you just peed all over Old Will. 

That’s bad luck, or maybe good, I’m not sure, but I wouldn’t do it again.”

“Oh, sorry,” said Clay, mortified.

“It’s one of the oldest and biggest banyans around. It’s like a marker. How you know you’ve reached Earth Ranch.”

Clay looked around. “This is Earth Ranch?”

Leira laughed. 

“I know, it’s kind of weird. There aren’t any gates or fences around the camp—just the Wall of Trust. Once you’re inside, you’re not supposed to go out again, unless it’s an emergency or you have special permission.”

“Do you have permission now?”

“No, but I still have one foot inside, so I’m only a half criminal,” said Leira blithely. 

“Speaking of criminals, sorry about stealing your stuff.”

Clay shrugged. “No problem.” 

He didn’t want to pick a fight with the first person he’d met on the island.

“At least I returned it, right? I always return everything. You know, like those fishermen who throw fish back into the water?  They just do it for the thrill?”

“I think that’s called catch and release,” said Clay.

“Yeah, catch and release, that’s it. Anyway, I can’t help stealing,” Leira explained. 

“I’m a kleptomaniac.”

“You are?” Clay couldn’t tell if she was serious.

She nodded. “Everybody at this camp is a maniac of some kind or other.  What kind are you?”

“I’m not any kind.” Leira’s eyes darkened. 

He had said the wrong thing.

“You mean you’re a think-you’re-better-than-the-rest-of-us maniac. An egomaniac.”

“That’s not what I meant,” Clay protested. 

“I’m not an egomaniac, just boring.”

But Leira had already disappeared into the vog.

“Hey—I don’t know which way to go!”

Clay tugged on the llama, wanting to run after Leira, but Como wouldn’t budge. 

He collapsed on his hind legs, camel-style, once more.

“Por favor… vámonos,” Clay pleaded.

A second later, he heard Leira’s laugh.

“I almost forgot to give you this,” she said. 

She emerged from the vog—and tossed him a fresh bunch of carrot tops.

“Now follow me, Mr. Not-a-Maniac—”

Then she disappeared again.

CHAPTER NINE

GUARD BEES

By the time he caught up with her, the vog had started to lift, and Clay discovered that they were descending into a deep green valley. 

In the center of the valley was a long turquoise lake shaped like a crescent moon. 

At the far end of the lake, the base of an enormous black mountain disappeared into a ring of billowing clouds. 

To the left of the mountain, a milk-white waterfall poured out from behind the clouds in an endless frothy stream. 

The view was beautiful but ominous, like a postcard that had been deliberately smudged.

“That dark mountain—it’s the volcano?” he asked as he followed her down the steep trail.

Leira nodded. 

“Mount Forge. The lake protects us from the lava flows—supposedly.”

“And that’s camp?”

On the near side of the lake, interspersed with pine trees and boulders, stood about a dozen structures of assorted sizes and shapes and colors—none of which resembled any buildings Clay had ever seen before.

“It looks like a village,” he said. 

“But like a village designed by someone totally whacked.”

“Yeah, that about sums it up.” Leira smiled. 

“C’mon, let’s hurry, before the vog comes back.”

As if he heard her, the llama strained at his leash, eager to get home. 

Clay tried to keep up while Leira pointed out the sights.

“Down there is Big Yurt,” she said, gesturing in the direction of a large round building. 

It had mud-brick walls and a woven thatched roof. 

Hanging by the entry way was a bronze gong that looked large enough to announce an emperor. 

“That’s where we have camp meetings and stuff, and where we eat when it’s raining.”

Then she pointed to two smaller yurts. 

They looked just like the larger one, except one was painted with a swirling psychedelic rainbow and the other had a wooden arch in front of its door. 

“The rainbow one is Art Yurt, which is the arts and crafts studio, duh. The other one is Little Yurt, but we usually call it Sick Yurt, or Puke Yurt.  It’s the infirmary. Don’t go in there unless you have to. The nurse, Cora, I think she’s a witch.…”

Clay eyed the infirmary with curiosity. 

It didn’t look very witchy, unless you counted the broken wind chimes hanging from the arch.

And the giant macramé spiderweb. 

(Actually, an oversized dream catcher, he would learn later.) 

The chimes tinkled noisily as they passed.

Next they reached two green, woodsy-looking cabins with dilapidated tin roofs. 

A small pond occupied the space between them.

“That’s your cabin, the younger boys’,” said Leira, pointing to the closer of the two. 

“It’s officially named Earth Cabin, which is confusing ’cause this whole place is Earth Ranch. So people just call it the Wormhole. You guys are known as Earthworms, or usually just Worms.… The other one is my cabin, the younger girls’. It’s called the Pond, and we’re known as Muds, or sometimes Frogs.… The older girls are up that hill—” 

She pointed to an A-frame-style cabin that hung precipitously over the hillside just above them. 

“Their cabin is Falcon’s Perch.… And the older boys are behind that rock over there—in Fire Truck. Actually, it’s a trailer, not a truck, but it’s painted red.”

“And what about that teepee?” asked Clay, pointing to a canvas teepee nestled among some trees. 

“Who stays there?”

“You can see the teepee?” She seemed surprised.

Clay squinted. 

“Uh, not anymore…” 

A cloud of vog had just passed over it.

Leira nodded knowingly. 

“You never see it very long.… It’s Over There.”

Clay looked around. 

“Where?”

“No, that’s the teepee’s name. Over There. It’s where the camp director, Eli, lives. It always moves around. So we call it Over There. You know, like, where’s the teepee…?”

“It’s Over There,” finished Clay, although he wasn’t sure how or why a teepee would move so often.

“Exactly.” She beckoned Clay forward. 

“C’mon, Como’s getting hungry.”

“So, where is everybody else now, anyway?” asked Clay. 

He had just noticed how quiet it was.

“It’s four p.m. That means everybody’s in Circle,” said Leira. 

“That’s sort of like your daily cabin meeting—slash—group therapy—slash—everybody says what they think about everybody else—slash—somebody always winds up crying hour.”

“Sounds fun.” Leira snorted.

“Why do you think I volunteered to go find you?” Leira stopped short just before they reached a rickety wooden gate. Behind the gate, Clay could see two llamas munching on hay, and a chicken running in and out of a big barn painted cobalt blue.

“Okay, stand still and don’t panic,” said Leira. 

“They’ll sense it if you’re scared.”

“Who?” asked Clay, his leg already jiggling with anxiety.

“The bees.” She nodded at a dark undulating cloud that appeared to be getting larger and larger.

“It’s just that they don’t know you and they’re very protective,” Leira explained. 

“Kind of like guard bees, you could say.”

“Guard bees?” Clay had never heard of such a thing. 

He could feel sweat trickling down his forehead. 

The dark cloud—now clearly a swarm of bees—was approaching at an alarming speed.

“Uh-huh.” Leira nodded as if this were perfectly normal. 

“They usually only sting you if they get mad. Just do as I say and you’ll be fine.…”

As the bees descended on them, the llama snorted and flattened his ears.

One bee flew at his nose, taunting him and forcing him to back away. 

But the others had no interest in the llama—only in Clay. 

They started circling his head at a dizzying speed. 

It was like being inside the eye of a tornado.

“Stop shaking!” said Leira.

“I’m trying! Jeez!”

They were the same large type of bumblebee Clay had seen earlier, but now there had to have been four or five hundred of them at least.

Slowing down now that he was caught in their spinning vortex, they buzzed around Clay, like miniature spy craft examining a potentially hostile alien spaceship. 

Five or six bees went so far as to land on his face. 

They crawled across his forehead, his nose, his ears, his neck, investigating every bump and every pore as if they were looking for the best spot to land a sting. 

They were fuzzy, hairy creatures, and every touch of their legs and wings tickled the nerve endings in Clay’s skin. 

Certain he was going to cough or sneeze—or scream—Clay held his breath and tried not to move a muscle.

“That’s it. You’re doing great,” said Leira quietly.

She pressed something into his hand.

“Here, take this flower—don’t look down!—and slowly hold it up for them, so they know you’re a friend.”

He held up what turned out to be a big yellow daisy.

At first, the flower had no noticeable impact. 

Then, one by one, the bees that had been crawling on his face flew over to the daisy.

They nibbled on some pollen, then rejoined the swarm.

Finally, responding to some inaudible cue, the bees all rose together in a long, unfurling ribbon and flew back in the direction from whence they’d come.

When the last bee had left, Clay exhaled, gasping for air. 

He clutched his stomach, afraid he was going to puke, but all that came out were a few dry heaves. 

He had never felt so relieved in his life.

“See. I told you it would be fine,” said Leira. 

But Clay could tell she’d been almost as nervous as he was. 

As they entered the barnyard, the llama broke free of Clay and dropped to the ground. 

The cardboard box fell off the llama’s back and tumbled into a pile of straw. 

Scared chickens squawked and scattered.

“What’s he doing?” Clay asked anxiously as the llama started rolling around in the dirt, legs in the air. 

“Did he get stung?”

“No, old Como’s just giving himself a dust bath,” said a tall man in a white beekeeper suit and hat. 

“Llamas always do that after a walk.”

He dropped a bucket to the ground. 

A large chunk of honeycomb was inside, oozing golden honey. 

A few bees hovered over it.

“Hope my little flying friends didn’t give you a scare.” 

He pulled the mesh veil up over his hat, revealing a bristly mustache and squinty gray eyes.

“They get a bit ornery when I harvest,” said the beekeeper, indicating the honey.

“Gee, I wonder why,” said Leira. 

“It’s not like you’re taking their food or anything.”

“Leira’s a vegan. She doesn’t approve,” the beekeeper explained to Clay. 

“But don’t let that stop you from taking a taste.”

“Now?” asked Clay, surprised but hungry.

“Go ahead, use your finger.”

Clay wiped his finger on his jeans—it was pretty dirty—then dipped it into the honey.

“We call it Golden Lava. Best you’ve ever had, am I right?” Clay nodded. 

It was by far the best honey he’d ever tasted. 

Like liquid gold with a slightly smoky flavor.

“I’m sorry the director isn’t around right this minute to welcome you officially, but I’ll try.” 

The man took Clay’s still-sticky hand and shook it ceremoniously. 

“You’re Clay. Known hereafter as Worm. I’m Buzz, your counselor. Known hereafter as… Buzz, your counselor. I’m also the camp beekeeper, llama wrangler, and general peacemaker.” 

Leira rolled her eyes. 

“I bet the bees think you’re really peaceful.” 

Buzz held up his finger. A bee landed on it. 

“Perhaps. Perhaps not.” 

As he looked at the bee, his lips vibrated in a strange, apian fashion.* 

Then the bee flew off to rejoin its peers. 

If Clay hadn’t known better, he would have thought that a message had passed between them.

“Bees are communitarians,” said Buzz. 

“They could teach us a thing or two about how to live in peace with one another.” Buzz smiled. 

“Of course, they also eat their young.”

“Right. Well, see ya,” Leira said to Clay.

She tossed him his wallet—which she had evidently pickpocketed for a second time—and was gone before he could say good-bye.“

Does she always disappear like that?” Clay asked.

“You mean like somebody just yelled ‘fire’?” said Buzz. 

“Pretty much.”

“Well, it’s a good thing she found me when she did,” said Clay. 

“A good thing I found the llama, too.”

Now that he’d arrived safely at Earth Ranch, Clay was starting to feel angry about the way he was welcomed—or more accurately, not welcomed—on the island.

Buzz smiled. 

“Oh, you found that llama pretty quickly.…”

Clay looked at him askance. 

“How do you know? You’ve got drones out there, spying?”

“Something like that,” said Buzz.*

“Then I was right. The llama was a test.” 

Clay couldn’t decide if the idea that he was being watched made him more furious or less.

“Life is a test. The llama was there to help.”

“Sure,” said Clay, far from satisfied. 

How could a counselor be so relaxed about endangering the life of a camper? 

He kept thinking of the SOS on the beach: Was that a kid who never made it to camp? 

Or, worse, tried to escape from camp?

“Any more questions, Worm?”

Yes, Clay thought. How do I get home?

Clay was on the verge of asking if he could call his parents, but he decided to wait a day. 

He was tired and sunburned and more than a little afraid of whatever might be coming next, but he had to at least give Earth Ranch a try. 

As bad as camp might be, it couldn’t be as bad as repeating sixth grade.

“Good man,” said Buzz, slapping Clay on the shoulder. 

“C’mon, we’re late for Circle. But first you gotta clean up after your llama.” 

He pointed to Como, who had stood up from his dirt bath and was now dropping little brown pellets from his behind onto the ground.

“My llama?” echoed Clay.

“Yes, Worm, just like you’re his human. For as long as you’re here.” 

He handed Clay a large rake. 

“Can’t let that fantastic fertilizer go to waste.”

“You hear that, Como?” Clay sighed. 

“We’re stuck together. Nosotros somos…” 

He made the together sign with two fingers.

As Clay raked llama poop into a tidy heap, bees circled above like so many tiny sentinels in their black-and-yellow uniforms, and Clay wondered just what it was they were protecting, and from whom.

CHAPTER TEN
CIRCLE

From the way Circle had been described, Clay expected his new cabinmates to be sitting on the floor with their legs crossed, talking about their feelings. 

Instead, they were lounging on their bunks with their feet up, talking about… well, Clay couldn’t tell, because they stopped talking as soon as he walked in. 

He suspected they’d been talking about him.

“Cabin, meet Clay,” said Buzz. 

“Clay, meet cabin.”

Clay’s first impression was that the three other boys in his cabin looked like a rock band—a young and clownish but also somewhat scary rock band. 

Between the three of them, they had a green Mohawk, a gold-tipped Afro, and one heavily gelled, slicked-back hairdo. 

Clay felt very dull in comparison—at least hair-wise.

“Well, isn’t anybody going to welcome the new Worm?” Buzz prompted.

The boy with the slicked-back hair jumped to his feet and shook Clay’s hand. 

He wore a pair of oversized eyeglasses that had no lenses and a T-shirt decorated with a picture of a necktie. 

Clay thought the outfit was supposed to be funny, but he wasn’t absolutely sure.

“Welcome to the Wormhole, New Worm,” said the boy with the glasses. 

“We are your Worm-mates. Punk Rock Worm over there is Pablo.”

The boy with the Mohawk raised a fist in greeting.

“Lil’ Superfly Worm here is Jonah.”

The boy with the Afro nodded his head.

“And that leaves yours truly,” said the boy with the glasses, pointing to himself. 

“I’m the Boss Worm, Kwan, which means ‘best-looking guy in the room’ in Korean, in case you were wondering.”

“And it means ‘biggest dork in the room’ in English,” said Jonah.

There were four bunk beds, making eight beds total, but there was only one free bed because Buzz had an entire upper and lower bunk to himself, and the other unused beds were covered with a jumble of dirty laundry and muddy shoes. 

Clay’s bunk, to which he was directed right away, was the top bunk in the back left corner of the cabin. 

Since the other campers had chosen their bunks first, Clay figured his was the least desirable, though he wasn’t sure why until he sat on the mattress; the springs were popping out, and they jabbed him whenever he moved. 

The cabin was open-air style, with no glass or screens in the windows, and from Clay’s bunk he could peer down to the ground outside.

It gave him a slight feeling of vertigo, which he did his best to ignore.

As it turned out, the box that Clay had delivered to camp was a care package for Jonah, who occupied the bunk below Clay. 

Everyone watched avidly as Jonah opened it. 

Here was something more interesting than a newcomer in their midst: food.

Jonah’s eyes lit up when he saw what was inside. 

“Can I keep it?” he asked Buzz. 

“Pretty please with, uh, red licorice on top.”

Grinning, he pulled out a plastic-wrapped package of skinny red rope familiar to most anyone who’s been to a movie theater.

“Go on, poison yourself,” said Buzz, who was peeling off his cowboy boots. 

“But don’t think I’ll be this lax if you get a cell phone in the mail.”

“Thanks, chief,” said Jonah, ripping open a package.

“You know what they say, it’s more fun to give than to receive,” said Kwan.

“Yeah, well, they lied, but have some anyway,” said Jonah, tossing licorice ropes around the room.*

As Pablo grabbed his licorice, Clay caught a glimpse of a dark bulky object peeking out from under his sleeping bag. 

Pablo quickly hid it—whatever it was—and gave Clay a look that plainly meant Clay was not to say anything. 

Clay looked away, alarmed to find himself keeping secrets so soon.

Jonah dangled another rope of licorice in the air. 

“For the new guy?”

“Sure, I mean, if there’s enough,” said Clay awkwardly.

“You kidding?” said Jonah, handing the licorice up to Clay. 

“There’s, like, ten more packages in the box. Plus, my moms’ll send more if I ask. They feel all guilty for sending me here.”

“So why did they, then?” 

Clay asked before he could stop himself. 

It was already clear he wasn’t supposed to be too nosy in this group.

“Oh, I got in a little trouble with the neighbors. They said they wouldn’t press charges if I came here.”

“Go on,” said Buzz. 

“Tell the whole story.”

“How can I? I don’t even remember it,” said Jonah.

“He’s a sleepwalker,” explained Kwan. 

He rolled his eyes back in his head and stuck out his hands zombie-style.

“More like a sleep-driver!” said Pablo. 

“He drove one of his moms’ cars straight into the neighbor’s garage.”

“Seriously? While you were sleeping?” Clay asked.

“Uh-huh,” said Jonah. 

“And I don’t even know how to drive!”

“The other day, he started walking into the lake in the middle of the night, still all snoring and everything,” said Pablo. 

“We just grabbed him and shook him until he woke up.” Kwan nodded. 

“It’s no big deal after a while.” 

Clay shook his head. 

“Wow, that’s… crazy.”

“What about you, Kwan?” said Buzz. 

“Can you tell Clay how you wound up here?”

“Sure, I’m not ashamed,” said Kwan. 

“All I did was provide a much-needed service for my peers.” Jonah laughed. 

“Yeah, you took their money.”

“He ran a gambling den in his school bathroom,” said Pablo.

“I like to think of it as more of an underground casino in an educational spa,” Kwan sniffed.

“You mean like card games and stuff?” Clay asked, looking at Kwan with renewed interest. 

He’d never met an underage underground gambler before.

Kwan grinned. 

“Cards for sure.” 

In a single deft motion, he pulled a deck of cards out of his pocket and started shuffling them like a pro. 

“But the real action was in the bookie operation.”

Clay was a little hazy about what precisely a bookie did, but he nodded as if he understood.*

“Tell him how you got caught,” said Jonah to Kwan.

“There was going to be this make-out party at this girl’s house, and I got everybody to bet on who would kiss who,” said Kwan, fanning the cards in his hand. 

“I had a full point spread, depending on how popular they were, how pretty, whatever.”

He walked over to Clay’s bunk and gestured for him to pick a card.

“So what happened?” asked Clay. 

He took a card, though as you know, he hadn’t been a big fan of card tricks since his brother disappeared.

“My class was a bunch of chickens—that’s what happened! Nobody kissed anybody,” said Kwan, as if he were still offended by his peers’ timidity. 

“Three of clubs, right?”

“Uh-huh,” said Clay noncommittally. 

He knew Kwan had forced the card; his brother had shown him how to do that long ago.

“What? You can do better, New Worm?” Kwan flared.

“No,” said Clay, even though he could.

“I didn’t think so.” 

Smiling, Kwan took the card back. 

“Anyway, my position was, there were no winners; therefore the bank keeps the money.”

“So everyone got pissed at him and told their parents,” said Pablo.

“And now you’re here,” concluded Clay, relieved that the brief moment of tension had passed.

“And now I’m here,” agreed Kwan, throwing his cards to the floor. 

Kwan looked at Pablo. 

“Your turn, Pablito.”

“I’m an anarchist,” Pablo boasted. 

He pointed to the symbol on his T-shirt. 

The letter A inside a circle.

“It means he doesn’t believe in government and rules and stuff,” said Jonah.

“I know what it means,” said Clay, although this might not have been one hundred percent true.*

He tried not to look at the mysterious lump in Pablo’s sleeping bag.

“Ask him how he got in trouble,” said Kwan.

“I didn’t get in trouble,” said Pablo. 

“It’s just that school is incompatible with my belief system.”

“You mean you ditched?” asked Clay.

“I don’t ditch,” Pablo sneered. 

“I go on strike. I protest school. I defy it.”

“Oh… cool,” said Clay, impressed but slightly confused.

“Do you know why school was invented?” Pablo demanded. 

“It was during the British Empire. To turn us all into little cogs in the same big machine.”

Kwan rolled his eyes. 

“No more history lessons, Pablo!” 

He looked over at Clay. 

“If you keep shaking your leg like that, nobody’s going to be able to sleep tonight.”

“Sorry,” Clay mumbled, embarrassed. 

“I do that sometimes.”

“Don’t listen to him,” said Jonah.

“Everybody here’s got his own freaky habits.”

There was silence for a moment.

Clay figured it was his turn to talk. 

“So I guess I should tell you guys why I’m here, right?”

“Oh, don’t worry, we know—” said Kwan.

“Magic sucks!” they all quoted together.

They laughed as though this were an inside joke.

“Right.” Clay forced a smile. 

How did they know about that?

Buzz shot a warning look around the room. 

They quieted down immediately.

“Sorry about that,” he said to Clay.

“Sometimes applications get leaked.”

“Dude, what was that all about, anyway?” asked Kwan. 

“Is Magic the name of a tagger you don’t like?”

“Yeah, or like a rival graffiti crew?” suggested Pablo. 

“Your crew having a war with them?”

“I don’t have a crew,” said Clay. 

“Actually, I’m not even a real graffiti artist.”

“You mean you’re not good?” said Jonah. 

“Don’t hate on yourself, man.”

“I mean I didn’t write on that wall,” said Clay. 

“I was framed. Somebody copied my journal while I was asleep.”

His protestation of innocence was met with laughter.

“So what you’re saying is, you’re a sleepwalker, too,” said Pablo. 

“You wrote all over your school wall, but you don’t remember a minute of it.”

“Yeah, that must be it,” said Clay sarcastically.

But when he thought about it, the sleepwalking idea gave him pause. 

It was the best explanation so far for what had happened.

As Circle wound down, Clay looked around at his colorful new cabinmates. 

They were a jocular bunch, no doubt, but there was a strong current of tension underneath. 

His instincts told him to be wary, and not just because of the mysterious contraband item under Pablo’s sleeping bag. 

The volcano wasn’t the only thing on the island with the potential to erupt.

CHAPTER ELEVEN
MAGIC ROCKS!

After Circle, Buzz went over the schedule for the summer session.

Although the other boys had already been at camp for a week, they all had questions—especially about the overnight backpacking trip to Mount Forge that they would be taking later in the summer. 

Apparently, Clay and his fellow Worms would be hiking through lava tubes (whatever they were), traversing live lava flows, and even ascending to the volcano’s crater. 

Clay’s arrival on the island sounded like a breeze in comparison.

Before they could go on the trip, they would each have to pass three tests: a swim test, a fire-starting test, and a lava safety test.

“But don’t think of them as tests; think of them as rites of passage,” said Buzz. 

“The volcano overnight will be the culmination of the journey that you are taking at Earth Ranch. You will have to trust in your fellow campers. You will have to navigate the hazards of the lava landscape. And because you will be packing no meals, you will have to forage for food, identifying which plants are edible and which are poisonous.”

“Oh, man, no more licorice!” Kwan complained.

“Can we hunt?” asked Pablo. 

He glanced outside the cabin, as if there might be game hiding in the bushes.

“We’re here to be at one with nature, not to attack it,” said Buzz. 

“The last thing we need is one of you Worms running around with a spear in his hand.”

“Okay, master, sir, we’ll all be good boys.”

“Pablo…”

“Right,” said Pablo, retreating into his bunk. 

“Got it. No hunting.”

“What about that gray bush with purple berries?” Clay asked.

“You know, that one that’s on the trail on the way here? Is it poisonous?” Buzz laughed. 

“Not unless you’re allergic to blueberries. Too bad there aren’t any growing on top of Mount Forge.”

Well, that’s one theory out the window, thought Clay. 

He was pretty sure that Beware—the—you—bury did not mean Beware the blueberry.

“Don’t be fooled by Buzz’s Zen beekeeper act,” said Jonah as Clay followed him into the shack-like bathroom that night. 

“He’s a total drill sergeant underneath.”

“Yeah?” Jonah nodded vehemently. 

“He’s already bawled out Kwan a couple times, and after Pablo tried to cross the Wall of Trust—I don’t know what Buzz said, but Pablo’s been wicked scared of him ever since. 

I think the only reason he hasn’t chewed me out yet is that he’s afraid of what I’ll do to him in my sleep.”

“Really?”

“No. I just know how to keep my head down, I guess.”

The bathroom lights briefly flickered out, leaving them in darkness.

Clay tried not to get nervous.

“It’s the generators here,” said Jonah when the lights went back on. 

“They’re kinda unreliable.… Just be glad you weren’t using the self-composting toilet.”

“The what?”

“You’ll see.”

As far as Clay was concerned, the self-composting toilet was just a hole in the ground with a fancy name, and he wasn’t going to squat over it until he absolutely had to. 

At least it didn’t smell. 

Which was more than he could say for the tap water. 

He spit it out and put more toothpaste on his toothbrush.

“Ugh—it tastes like rotten eggs,” Clay said to Jonah. 

“Or sulfur, I guess.”

“It’s from the volcano,” said Jonah, his mouth full of toothpaste. 

“You get used to it.”

“I guess there’s a lot to get used to around here." Jonah shrugged. 

“I don’t know, seems like they never really let you get too used to anything at Earth Ranch.”

Before Clay could ask Jonah what he meant, an older boy walked into the bathroom.

“That’s Flint,” Jonah whispered. 

“He’s a junior counselor. From Fire Truck. Ignore him.”

Too late. 

Flint stepped behind Clay and stared at him in the mirror so that Clay had no choice but to stare back. 

Flint had black hair, blue eyes, and the muscles of somebody who had started lifting weights at an early age. 

He looked like Superman’s mean-spirited younger brother. 

Clay disliked him on sight.

“Hey, it’s the new kid—welcome to Earth Ranch,” said Flint, in the least welcoming voice Clay had ever heard.

“Hi,” Clay said curtly. 

“I’m Clay.”

“I know—you’re the graffiti artist.

”He knows about that, too! Clay thought. Does the whole camp know why I’m here?“

For the record, I didn’t do that—” said Clay, turning to face Flint.

“Don’t lie,” said Flint menacingly. 

He stepped forward, forcing Clay to back into the sink. 

“I don’t like liars.”

“I’m not lying—”

Flint cut him off.

“Oh yeah? And I bet you didn’t write that, either—”

As Flint spoke, the bathroom lights flickered off and on again. 

Clay turned back toward the mirror—and froze in disbelief.

MAGIC ROCKS!

As before, the message was written in Clay’s bubble letters—only enlarged many times over. 

But this time the sentiment was reversed. 

MAGIC ROCKS! rather than MAGIC SUCKS!

“Look, he’s already up to his old tricks,” Flint sneered. 

“Guess you changed your mind about magic, huh, Worm?”

“No!” Clay tried to move away, but Flint shoved him against the mirror. 

“What do you think—should I call your counselor and show him? I wonder how many days you’d be cleaning out the toilet.…”

Clay glared at the bigger boy. 

“I don’t know how you did that, but it’s not very cool.”

Flint laughed. 

“It’s the coolest thing there is. It’s magic.”

He spit a big loogie onto the mirror. 

The graffiti started to disappear as soon as the saliva touched it, the saliva sizzling as if it were boiling hot. 

Flint spit two more times and the graffiti was gone altogether. 

The mirror looked as dirty and cracked and free of writing as it had looked when Clay first walked into the room.

How did Flint make the writing go away? 

Baking soda? 

Hydrochloric acid? 

Or had it just been an illusion to begin with? 

Years of practice with Max-Ernest had made Clay fairly skilled at analyzing magic tricks, but he was stumped.

“See you around, Worm!” said Flint on his way out of the bathroom.

“I hope not,” muttered Clay.

Flint turned around. 

“What did you say?”

“Nothing. He didn’t say anything,” said Jonah quickly.

“I didn’t think so,” said Flint, disappearing out the door.

Clay turned to Jonah. 

“What’s up with that guy? How did he even know what my writing looked like?”

“Just stay away from him,” Jonah blurted. 

He looked so shaken, you would have thought he was the one being threatened, not Clay. 

“Flint is way aggro. A serious pyromaniac. I heard he lit his old school on fire.”

“It’s true, huh?” said Clay. 

“Everyone here is a maniac.”

“Maybe, but Flint—he’s a different level.”

Just my luck, Clay thought, my first day at camp and already I have a pyromaniac magician for an enemy. 

But why? 

He couldn’t have done anything to make Flint angry; they’d never met before. 

Like so many things recently, it made no sense.

As he exited the bathroom, Clay looked reflexively for his skateboard, but of course it wasn’t there. 

No doubt his father had taken it home, and it was now leaning against one of the graffiti-covered walls of Clay’s bedroom. 

Suddenly, Clay felt an ache in his stomach that had nothing to do with hunger.

Walking back to his cabin, he saw the brightest stars he’d ever seen. 

He searched for a constellation he might recognize—the Big Dipper, maybe, or Orion—but soon the stars were covered by clouds of vog.

The sky was dark.

CHAPTER TWELVE

WEEDS

It was still dark when Clay awoke to the sound of the camp gong reverberating in his ears.

He looked sleepily around the cabin and was surprised to see it was empty.

Was it later than it looked?

“Five a.m.,” announced Buzz, startling Clay. 

“The others are already at the vegetable garden. You’re late, Worm.” 

Buzz stood outside the door wearing some sort of hooded robe and holding a long spade. 

He could have been the grim reaper calling Clay to his death instead of his counselor calling him to gardening chores. 

His mustache only made him look more ominous.

Clay swallowed. 

“Sorry, I didn’t—”

“We weed early, before it gets hot,” said Buzz gruffly. 

“Now get dressed, or you’ll be weeding all day.”

Clay got to his feet wondering why nobody had tried to wake him earlier. 

Did his cabinmates think they’d done him a favor by letting him sleep, or had they set him up for a fall?

“Achoo!”

Alas, Clay never quite recovered from his late start. 

As soon as he started weeding, he started wheezing, irritated by the pollen in the air.

Sweat and dirt got in his eyes. 

He itched and scratched until he bled. 

And those fiercely protective camp bees kept buzzing around Clay’s head. 

It was as if they were threatening him with stings in order to make him work harder. 

Clay was no insect expert, but he was certain this was not normal bee behavior.

Worst of all, he wasn’t making any progress. 

By the time he got one weed out of the ground, it seemed like there was already a new weed springing up in its place.

“If you don’t speed up, you’ll be making me lunch for sure,” said Leira, when they found themselves weeding adjacent rows. 

Their cabins were in competition; whichever cabin finished weeding first would be served lunch by the other. 

Clay’s cabin was responsible for the rows of root vegetables like beets and radishes and carrots, all of which came in a rainbow of colors Clay had never seen before.

Leira’s cabin, the Pond, had the next set of rows, where the lettuces and spinach and such grew alongside more exotic fare like fiddlehead ferns and Jerusalem artichokes.

Clay yanked on a weed. 

It broke at the stem instead of coming out with its roots.

“Try not to tug so hard,” said Leira.

Clay found another weed and did as Leira suggested. 

The weed slipped out of his hand.

Leira laughed. 

“Maybe you’re just not cut out to be a farmer.”

“Maybe not,” said Clay.

“You don’t have to sound so miserable about it,” said Leira.

“Sorry.” 

Clay tried to dig out his weed, then gave up.

“Don’t apologize.”

“Sorr—okay,” Clay corrected himself.

“Are you always this cheery?”

Clay shrugged.

“I was teasing,” said Leira.

“I know.”

“So what’s your story, anyway?” 

Leira asked.

“Story?”

“Yeah, I mean, not magic sucks, I know about that—”

Clay shook his head. 

“Of course you do. Everybody does.”

“I mean like where do you come from, what’s your sign, do you have any pets?”

“No pets,” said Clay.

“Siblings?”

“Brother… well, I had a brother.”

Leira’s brow furrowed under her cap. 

“You mean he’s dead?”

“No,” said Clay, attacking another weed. 

“Disappeared.”

“Disappeared?”

“Uh-huh. He just… got sick of us.”

Leira waited for him to say more. 

He didn’t.

“You don’t have to tell me more if you don’t want to…” she said.

“Okay.”

“But if you want to…”

Clay gave her a look. 

“You mean you want me to tell you more.”

“Well, you have to admit it’s pretty interesting—people don’t disappear every day!” said Leira defensively. 

“Besides, what do you want to talk about, the weeds?” 

Clay hesitated. 

He didn’t really want to talk about anything, but there was no question Leira was being nice to him—nicer than anyone at camp had been so far.

It didn’t seem right not to respond.

He told her briefly about the good-bye note from his brother and what had happened afterward.

Leira looked at him, perplexed. 

“I don’t understand. If all he said was you wouldn’t hear from him for a while, how do you know he was sick of you?”

“If you knew my parents, you wouldn’t ask. And me, I’m just some dumb kid, right?” said Clay, unable to hide his bitterness.

Leira frowned. 

“Why would somebody have to totally disappear just to get away from his family? He could have just not answered the phone. There must have been another reason.… I bet he was in trouble and had no choice.”

“Nah, his friend said he was okay,” said Clay, thinking of Cass.

“So, maybe they didn’t want to raise any alarms,” said Leira. 

“I still think he could be in trouble.”

“What kind of trouble?” Clay asked skeptically.

“I don’t know. What was he into?”

“Lots of stuff. Magic mostly. He wanted to be a magician.”

“Well, there you go!” said Leira enthusiastically. 

“Magicians always get into trouble. Most of them are thieves.”

“How do you know?” 

It was something Clay might have said himself, but hearing it from someone else irked him for some reason.

“Trust me, I know—” 

She held out his wallet, which she had apparently pickpocketed sometime in the last few minutes.

“Ha-ha,” said Clay, grabbing the wallet from her.

“But seriously,” said Leira, “maybe your brother was part of a heist that went wrong.”

“You mean you think the police are after him?” 

Clay tried to picture his brother as a criminal on the lam.

Leira nodded, wide-eyed. 

“Yeah, or else, like, some bad guy who’s mad he didn’t get his jewels or whatever? 

That’s why your brother can’t communicate! 

He’s being watched!”

“You seem pretty excited about it,” said Clay.

Her face fell. 

“Sorry. I mean, he is your brother.”

“That’s okay,” said Clay, even though it wasn’t, or not entirely. 

“But I doubt my brother was in a heist. He’s too… logical. And he’s a terrible liar.”

Then again, Clay reminded himself, Max-Ernest had hinted more than once that he was involved with dangerous secret activities. 

Could his absence have been forced on him in some way—even if he wasn’t a criminal?

“Anyway, that sucks, him disappearing like that,” said Leira. 

“I don’t know what I would do if that happened to my sister. I mean, I hate her half the time. She’s this totally annoying know-it-all bookworm. But still—”

“I know, my brother, too,” said Clay.

“Your brother, too, what?”

“My brother is a totally annoying know-it-all bookworm, too, but yeah, I miss him… sometimes.”

It was the first time in a long time that Clay had acknowledged missing his brother. 

It felt surprisingly… good.

He and Leira looked at each other for a moment. 

Clay wondered, suddenly, if he had made a friend.

An older girl with long hair and longer legs walked by, carrying a gardening hoe.

“Back to work, Worm!” the girl called out to Clay. 

“Or you won’t just be serving lunch—you’ll be lunch! And that goes for you, too, Leira. I don’t want you messing things up for our cabin!” 

She pointed her hoe at Leira as if it were a weapon.

“Sheesh. Who was that?” asked Clay after she’d gone.

“Adriana. My counselor,” said Leira. 

“Do yourself a favor and don’t get on her bad side.”

Clay’s Worm-mates had come over to see what the fuss was about.

“You make it sound like she has a good side,” said Pablo. 

“That girl is mean.”

“Well, she’s got a good-looking side, anyway,” said Kwan. 

“Two of them, front and back.” 

He wiggled his eyebrows over his empty eyeglass frames.

“You’re gross,” said Leira. 

“Worm.”

“Get over it, man,” said Jonah. 

“She ever hears you talk like that, you’re toast.”

“She’s Flint’s girlfriend,” he added for Clay’s benefit.

“Flint wishes,” said Leira, snickering.

There was no cafeteria or dining hall at Earth Ranch. 

There wasn’t even a proper kitchen. 

In the back of Big Yurt, there was a counter on which food could be prepared, as well as bins and cabinets for storing food and food-related items. 

But there was no stove or oven, no freezer or refrigerator.

Occasionally, desperate campers cooked over an open fire or used another natural source of heat, such as a rock that had been sitting in the sun or, if you were willing to walk, one of the nearby steam vents that released heat from the molten lava underneath. 

Mostly, they ate their food raw.*

Today was an “earth to table” lunch, which meant you had to assemble your own lunch from the ingredients piled on a long table outside Big Yurt. 

Imagine a salad bar with no condiments and all the vegetables barely out of the ground. 

The other campers seemed to have very little trouble with this arrangement, whether they were chopping kale or peeling cucumbers. 

Clay had more experience cooking for himself than the average twelve-year-old, but he was used to ingredients that came in packages; his idea of preparing a meal was to press START on the microwave, or if he was really ambitious, to open a box into a pot of boiling water. 

As a member of the losing cabin, he was supposed to be helping make the girls’ lunches; alas, he couldn’t even figure out how to make one for himself.

Not knowing what else to do, Clay put a mango on his plate. 

Maybe it wasn’t a full lunch, but it was his favorite fruit. 

If only he could figure out how to get the skin off.

The members of Earth Cabin sat at the table farthest from Big Yurt, closest to the edge of the gravel patio. 

Directly below, shaded by a large cedar tree, was the Earth Ranch dock. 

A long rope hung from the tree, and as he sat down next to Jonah, Clay watched one of the older boys swing from the rope and jump into the water. 

It looked like a big drop.

The lake beyond was obscured by vog.

When Clay glanced back down at his lunch plate, his plate was empty. 

He looked around to see where his mango had fallen.

Leira tossed the mango to him from the opposite side of the table. 

The other boys laughed.

“Very funny,” said Clay.

“Yeah, well, what happened to the lunch you were supposed to make for me?” 

She gestured to his tablemates. 

“They all made them for the other girls.”

“Sorry,” said Clay, looking around to see if any counselors had noticed his lapse.

“No worries. I covered for you.… Besides, I’d rather take your money than your food.” 

She held up his wallet.

Clay shook his head. Not again.

“C’mon. Give it back.”

He tried to snatch the wallet from her, but she was too fast for him.

“Admit it: I’m good at it,” said Leira.

“Stealing? Yes, you’re good at it. You’re an awesome thief.”

“Thanks.” Leira handed his wallet back to him. 

“It’s all about controlling your attention. Making sure you’re looking over there”—she pointed across the table—“when I’m actually over here.”

She held up Clay’s wallet again.He groaned. 

“Give me a break—”

Grinning, Leira tossed the wallet back to Clay. 

“Now I’m going to get that lunch you were supposed to get for me, slacker.”

“I think somebody has a crush on you,” said Kwan as soon as Leira had left. 

He tossed a carrot at Clay.

“No, she doesn’t,” said Clay, reddening.

“And maybe you have a crush on her,” said Pablo. 

He took a cue from Kwan and tossed a chunk of cucumber.

“No, I don’t,” said Clay, fending off the vegetable missiles.

“It’s okay, you can have her,” said Kwan. 

“I got all the other ladies lining up already.”

“Lining up to do what,” said Pablo, “throw water in your face?” 

He flicked water at Kwan.

A few tables over, Buzz stood up and gave them the cut it out signal; there would be no food fights today.

“You may as well admit it,” said Jonah to Clay. 

“There’s nothing wrong with having a crush on somebody. My mom says it’s normal for kids our age.”

“I repeat, I Do Not Have a Crush on Leira,” said Clay, who couldn’t stand to be the subject of this kind of speculation. 

“She’s nice and all, but she’s totally irritating. I swear, if she takes my wallet one more time—”

“Uh—” Jonah pointed.

Clay looked over his shoulder. 

Leira was standing behind him, her face crimson. 

She held his wallet in her hand.

“I thought you went to get your lunch…” said Clay nervously. 

How much had she heard?

“I told you to pay attention. Worm.”

Clay couldn’t tell whether she meant that he should pay attention to where his wallet was or to what he was saying. 

Either way, she didn’t seem happy about it.

“I’m sorry,” he said lamely. 

“They were bugging me, and I was just—”

“Sure.”

Leira handed him his wallet and walked away.

Clay thought he should run after her and try again to apologize, but he didn’t know what exactly he would say.

He felt terrible.

Kwan shrugged. 

“Told you she had a crush on you.”

“Not anymore,” said Jonah.

“Now she hates you,” agreed Pablo.

Clay was about to reply when he noticed that some of the clouds lingering around the lake had lifted, revealing the ruins of an enormous white stone edifice sitting on a black rock bluff. 

From where he was sitting, the broken columns and crumbling walls looked like the remains of an ancient temple rising out of the vog.

“What’s that?” he asked.

“Price Palace,” said Kwan. 

“You know, the guy whose island this was? Supposedly, it was huge. Just like a palace in Europe or wherever. All marble and gold and stuff. Then—”

He waved his hand, and mimicked the sound of a volcanic explosion.

Clay squinted, trying to imagine a palace where the ruins now stood. 

“You guys ever check it out?” Clay asked.

The others all looked at one another. Nobody seemed to want to answer.

“He tried,” said Jonah finally, pointing to Pablo. 

Pablo shot Jonah an angry look from under his Mohawk, but he didn’t deny it.

“What happened?” asked Clay.

“They always know when you cross the Wall of Trust,” said Kwan.

“Who?”

“The bees,” said Kwan.

“That’s crazy,” said Clay.

“Oh, yeah? Explain this—” Pablo pushed up his shirt sleeve. 

His arm was covered with welts. 

“That’s from when I tried to go to the ruins—those crazy bees kept stinging me until I ran all the way back to camp.”

“Whoa,” said Clay, horrified.

Pablo nodded. 

“It’s stupid to call it the Wall of Trust if there’s no way to cross it, right? Where’s the trust in that?”

“What’s in the ruins that they don’t want you to see?” asked Clay.

“Heck if I know,” said Pablo.

“Well, what happened there?” Clay persisted.

“What does it look like?” said Kwan. 

“The volcano erupted.”

“Price was capitalist scum. He leeched money from poor people,” said Pablo. 

“I say, good on old Mount Forge for knocking his place down.” Jonah shook his head. 

“Don’t talk like that, dude. Say it too many times and the volcano will come for you, too.”

“All we know is, somebody died there,” said Kwan.

Clay’s eyes widened. 

“In the eruption? Who—Price?”

“A girl,” said Jonah. 

“And now the ruins are haunted.”

The others laughed.

“Go ahead and laugh,” said Jonah. 

“But you know that’s what people say.”

“The only thing that haunts that place is Price’s blood money,” said Pablo.

“And bees,” said Kwan.

As Kwan spoke, the sun shone directly on the ruins, turning them brilliant gold. 

For a moment, Clay could almost imagine Price Palace in all its former glory.

A girl was buried there, Clay thought. 

Was that what Skipper’s warning Beware—the—you—bury was about?

Beware who you bury. 

Maybe that was the message.

That night, after a dinner that was only slightly more filling than his lunch, Clay walked into his cabin to find Pablo smearing something on his arm with a rag. 

He almost jumped out of his bunk when he saw Clay.

“Oh, it’s you. Man, you freakin’ scared me.”

“Sorry,” said Clay. 

“Do they hurt?”

“What?”

“The beestings.”

“Oh, right,” said Pablo, pulling his sleeve down. 

“Nurse Cora gave me some lotion to put on them.”

Clay had the sense there was something more Pablo was going to say—the reason he’d been so scared when Clay walked in maybe? 

Or maybe he was going to reveal what he’d been hiding under his sleeping bag the day before?—but then the others started coming into the cabin. 

It was time for bed.

Later, Clay lay on his bunk, sleepless. 

As he listened to his cabinmates snore, he took stock of his situation. 

From the moment, almost two weeks earlier, when he found the words MAGIC SUCKS! written on his teacher’s wall, things had gone from bad to worse:

He’d been wrongly accused and suspended from school.
He’d been sent to a camp for delinquents on a remote volcanic island.
He’d been abandoned with a cryptic warning next to an alarming SOS sign.
He’d been threatened by a wild boar and a swarm of bees.
He’d made an enemy of the scariest guy at camp.
He’d insulted the only person who’d been very nice to him.
He’d failed at the simple task of weeding.
He’d been afraid to use the toilet and he’d hardly eaten a thing.
He was hungry and he wanted to go home.

But even as he started planning how he would approach Buzz, Clay already knew he wouldn’t leave. 

Not yet. 

It wasn’t just that he had to stay at Earth Ranch in order to return to school in the fall. 

It was something about the place itself.

A feeling that there was more to the camp than met the eye. 

This strange camp with its fast-changing weather and even faster-growing weeds; with its Spanish-speaking llama and bee-speaking counselor; with its now-you-see-it-now-you-don’t teepee and its forbidden ruins where a girl had supposedly died. 

What had Jonah said? 

They never let you get too used to anything at Earth Ranch. 

Clay couldn’t put his finger on it, but he was certain that behind the clouds of vog, all was not as it seemed.

Seeing his own words on Mr. Bailey’s wall had been the most bewildering event in Clay’s life, but perhaps it had a purpose after all: to lead him to this foreboding but intriguing island. 

Clay would never have said it out loud—it would have sounded too superstitious—but he was almost convinced that something like fate had brought him to Earth Ranch.

He had a role to play here, he felt sure; he wanted to find out what it was.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
FREE TIME

Little by little, Clay began to adapt to camp life.

Within the next four or five days, he learned enough about “cooking” with raw foods to feed himself, and he ceased to be afraid of the self-composting toilet. 

The bees let him do his chores in peace, and he had no further run-ins with Flint. 

He even started pulling weeds out at the root.

(Unfortunately, he couldn’t share the victory with Leira; she still wasn’t speaking to him.)

And yet he felt no closer to uncovering the camp’s secrets.

Indeed, he was almost beginning to feel foolish for thinking that there was anything very mysterious about Earth Ranch at all. 

Maybe the camp was no more or less than it seemed: a slightly eccentric place where “struggling” kids went to farm and be one with nature.

The thing that made him think otherwise was Price Palace. 

Right there, overlooking the camp, were the supposedly haunted ruins of a spectacular mansion, eradicated in a volcanic eruption, a fascinating sight by any measure, and yet the campers seemed afraid to speak about it, and the counselors never mentioned it. 

It was a conspiracy of silence.

If there were mysteries to be unearthed at Earth Ranch, then they would be found in the ruins.

With all his farm duties to attend to, Clay didn’t have an extended period of free time until the end of the week. 

Even then free time turned out not to mean free time as much as it meant time to walk his llama.

Luckily, a llama walk was just what he had in mind.

In his week at camp, Clay had yet to see the camp beehive. 

Supposedly, it was in the clearing behind the banana grove, but when Clay looked there for Buzz, Clay saw only a tree. 

Or what was once a tree. 

It had been cleaved in two by lightning and now looked like a mismatched pair of blackened towers. 

Smoke billowed around the tree as if embers still smoldered inside.

Apprehensive, Clay stepped closer. 

Though long dead, the tree was teeming with life. 

Hundreds of frenzied bees flew in and out of a dark hole in the base of the tree, while honey oozed like sap out of the burned bark.

Buzz walked toward Clay, holding a smoking branch.

“Don’t worry, there’s no fire,” he said from behind his beekeeper visor. 

“The smoke calms them. So they don’t get too upset with me when I reach for the honey.”

“That tree—that’s the beehive?” asked Clay, keeping a safe distance from the smoke and the bees alike.

“Yep. We call it the treehive.… Where do you think bees make their hives in the wild?”

He put a dripping piece of honeycomb into a bucket.

“So anyway, would it be cool if I took Como up to the ruins on our walk today?” asked Clay. 

“I thought it would be fun to check the place out,” he added, trying to sound as casual as possible.

Buzz seemed a little put off by Clay’s request. 

“I don’t know—this really should be the director’s call,” he said.  

“I’m sorry you didn’t get here a minute earlier. Then you could have asked Eli yourself.”

“Eli was here?” asked Clay, surprised. 

He’d been at Earth Ranch for seven days and still hadn’t laid eyes on the director of the camp.

“Oh, he’s always around somewhere,” said Buzz vaguely. 

“He just likes to keep an eye on things in his own way.”

He told Clay that as long as he stayed within view of camp, he could go as far as the old palace gate. 

“That gate marks the boundary of the Wall of Trust. If you cross it, you may as well not come back.”

A bee landed briefly on Clay’s arm, as if to emphasize the point. 

He winced, bracing himself for a sting, but the bee flew away.

“Don’t worry,” said Clay, relieved.

“I’m not actually going into the ruins. I’m just going to look.”

He had no intention of crossing the Wall of Trust. 

The beestings on Pablo’s arm were still fresh in his mind.

“Good, because that’s the one thing that will get you sent straight home,” said Buzz sternly. 

“And be back in time for Circle. We’re having our first fire-starting lesson right afterward—”

An old gravel path connected the camp to the palace. 

Much of the path was overgrown, and most of the steps broken, but the hike posed no difficulty for the llama, and Clay did his best to follow.

As they zigzagged up the hill, Clay kept looking back and forth between the camp and the ruins. 

Partly, this was to gauge his progress; partly it was to keep an eye out for bees. 

At one point, Clay saw Leira standing on the dock in her bathing suit and a bathing cap. 

He waved to her.

She did not wave back, though he was certain she saw him. 

When is she going to forgive me? he wondered. 

While he watched, Leira grabbed onto the rope, swung herself into the lake, and started swimming toward Egg Rock, the large rock jutting out from the water. 

He remembered that the girls were having their swim test that afternoon. 

The boys would have theirs the following week.

After twenty minutes or so, the llama stopped, and Clay stepped onto a stone patio built to take advantage of the view of the lake and the volcano beyond. 

The patio was circled by an elegant marble balustrade that had somehow managed to survive the eruption of Mount Forge intact.

In the middle of the patio, sitting on a rock, was an old bronze statue of a girl reading a book. 

Years of exposure to the elements had turned parts of the statue turquoise and corroded other parts beyond recognition, but the girl’s singular expression remained. 

Though her eyes were fixed on her book, she seemed to be looking somewhere far, far away. 

Clay walked around the statue, studying it from all sides. 

According to the Worms, a girl had died when Price Palace burned down. 

Was the statue a memorial to her, maybe?

As clouds of vog started to drift over the lake, Clay tugged on the llama’s leash. 

“C’mon, Como, let’s go see what’s up with these ruins.”

The gate Buzz spoke of—and hence the Wall of Trust itself—stood about twenty feet inland from the patio. 

The doors of the gate had long ago disappeared, and the gate was now no more than an arch framing Clay’s view of the ruins.

Clay glanced around, afraid that at any moment he would be surrounded by a swarm of bees. 

He didn’t see any bees, but just in case, he picked a daisy out of the ground and held it between his fingers the way Leira had instructed him.

To Clay, the ruins still looked more like the remains of an ancient civilization than of someone’s home. 

A row of columns—a few of them unbroken, the others broken off at varying heights—stood alone, no longer holding up anything except the sky. 

Around them, bits and pieces of wall and roof lay like shards of a giant pot, but most of the ground was covered with lava rock and ash. 

Evidently, the volcano had made a direct hit on the palace. 

There was only one wall of any significant size left standing. 

It was white and unadorned—a perfect spot, Clay couldn’t help thinking, for a large graffiti piece.

While mentally writing his name on the wall, he became aware of a buzzing sound: A bee was flying straight at him.

“Aaack!” Clay swatted the bee away, dropping the protective flower and the llama’s leash at the same time.

“Sorry, sorry!” he exclaimed, immediately regretting what he’d done.

He was afraid the bee had flown away to collect recruits, but the bee hadn’t left; it had landed on the llama’s nose. 

For a second, nobody moved. 

Not Clay. 

Not the bee. 

Not the llama.

Then, apparently stung, the llama shrieked, reared his head, and bolted.

Moving faster than Clay had ever seen him move, he ran through the ruins and disappeared around the hill. 

The bee disappeared after him.

“Como, come back! ¡Aquí! ¡Aquí!”

Clay called the llama’s name repeatedly, but the llama didn’t return.

Panicking, Clay tried to decide what to do. 

To retrieve the llama, he would have to cross the Wall of Trust, and risk getting expelled from camp. 

And yet he couldn’t just leave the llama; taking care of Como was his primary responsibility, and who knew what kinds of hazards there were on the island for a llama not used to life in the wild.

Clay hesitated, his fingers outstretched, as if there were an invisible electrified fence in front of him.

He looked back at camp. 

As far as he could tell, nobody was watching. 

And the bee hadn’t come back.

To heck with it, Clay thought. 

What was the worst that could happen? 

Just a few days ago, he’d been hoping to go home anyway.

Bracing himself, Clay ran through the gate, and—nothing happened. 

No alarm rang. 

No swarm of bees descended. 

He was in the ruins.

The llama hadn’t gone far.

He was grazing next to a round gray stone building that wasn’t visible from camp or even from the palace gate. 

It was a tower, though I hesitate to call such a squat building a tower. 

About four stories high and equally wide, it had a conical roof covered with red tile. 

A single row of small square windows snaked around the side of the tower, starting at ground level and rising all the way to the roofline.

The tower looked like no other structure Clay had ever seen, but what was most remarkable about it was that it was completely untouched by fire or lava.

Volcanic rocks were everywhere in the vicinity, but they stopped about three feet away from the tower’s base, as though the perimeter of the tower had been protected by some invisible force field. 

In this protected space, wildflowers bloomed.

A few bees hovered among the flowers, but they appeared to take no notice of him; they could have been bees anywhere.

The llama stood a few feet from the front entrance: two oversized bronze doors that together formed a triangle. 

Above the tower entrance appeared a cryptic name: U  BRARY

Why did that name seem so familiar?

When he looked again, Clay could see that the sign had once said PRICE PUBLIC LIBRARY; it was just that most of the letters had fallen away.

Clay smiled sardonically. 

There was nothing public about this library. 

The front doors were locked with chains. 

Most of the windows were boarded up. 

There were vines covering the walls. 

It was the most private place he could imagine. 

Never mind that a private island was an absurd location for a public library to begin with.

In a flash, Clay realized that the library must have been the place the pilot tried to warn him about. 

That was why the name seemed so familiar.

Not Beware—the—you—bury, Clay thought.

Beware—the—U—BRARY.

Did some unknown danger lurk inside? 

It was foolhardy, no doubt, but Clay felt a sudden, undeniable desire to find out.

Well, what would you have done? (I would have run back to camp, but I’m assuming you’re more adventurous.)

Leaving the llama to graze a moment longer, Clay walked around the library tower, looking for a way in.

He found a small door hidden in a stairwell below ground level, but when he drew closer, he discovered that a large combination lock was built into the door; it was like the door of a safe. 

It could take years to get the door open. 

He was almost relieved. 

In truth, as much as he wanted to see inside the library, he was scared of what he might find.

The sun was shining directly overhead and Clay was beginning to feel hot and dizzy. 

It was time to go back to camp and drink some water.

“C’mon, Como. Vámonos. Maybe we can come back some other time.”

As Clay turned away from the library, he happened to glance upward. 

He froze, his heart pounding.

There was a girl reading in one of the tower windows. 

Her red hair lit by the sun, she looked as though she were on fire. 

And yet her face was as pale and serene as snow. 

She was pretty, beautiful even, but that wasn’t why Clay stood there, rooted to the spot, unable to look away. 

It was the feeling of déjà vu. 

He knew he had seen her before, whoever she was, and yet he knew he had not. 

He’d never seen anyone remotely like her before.

Suddenly, their eyes met. 

Her mouth opened in surprise, as if she were as startled to see him as he was to see her.

Clay pointed from himself to the library. 

Can you let me in? he mouthed.

She shook her head vehemently, fear on her face.

Then she disappeared. 

The tower looked as empty and desolate as it had before.

Clay blinked. 

Had she been an apparition? 

An effect of the light?

He considered banging on the door or looking again for a way in. 

But from far down below he could hear the sound of the gong reverberating across the valley. 

Free time was over.

Not only that, but wisps of clouds were floating by. 

The vog had begun to climb up the hillside. 

Soon visibility would be poor, and getting back to camp would be difficult.

He had no choice. 

He had to leave.

As he led the llama back down the mountain, Clay realized where he’d seen the girl in the tower before. 

Or rather why he thought he’d seen her.

The old statue on the patio. 

The statue of the girl reading. 

The girl reading in the tower window had worn the same faraway expression.

They could almost have been the same person.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

A CAMPFIRE STORY

I’m not sure who first got the idea that you could start a fire by rubbing two sticks together. 

It is extremely difficult, if not impossible. 

As you may know if you are a Scout or a forest ranger, a somewhat easier method for starting a fire is to make a hand drill out of a stick. 

Alas, even this method is difficult unless you’ve done it many times before. 

The first time he attempted it, Clay failed to make a spark. 

Thankfully, so did everyone else in his cabin. 

He was not alone in his embarrassment.*

The fire pit was situated under a large geodesic dome about halfway between Big Yurt and the lake. 

They could see the sun setting over the lake as each of them tried over and over to make a flame. 

Eventually, they were sitting under the dome in the dark, like cavemen waiting for the invention of fire. 

In the center of the fire pit, logs were piled in the shape of a teepee, teasing them with the promise of warmth. 

Clay felt chilly for the first time since he’d been at camp.

“You’re all trying too hard,” said Buzz, who was seemingly as impervious to the passage of time as he was to the vagaries of temperature. 

“You have to let the fire breathe.”

“Look at the bright side, this way you don’t have to teach us how to put a fire out,” said Kwan.

“Can’t you just do it for us? I’m freezing,” complained Jonah.

“I heard somebody needed a light,” said Flint, casually swinging himself under the dome from out of the darkness.

His eyes glinting, Flint stood over the fire pit and snapped his fingers. 

For a second, sparks flew from his hand as if he were soldering a pipe. 

Then the logs burst into flame.

Amazed, Clay looked around at the others.

They seemed amused more than anything else. 

It wasn’t the first time they’d seen Flint’s pyrotechnics.

Buzz’s eyes narrowed. 

“This was supposed to be a teaching moment, Flint, not a fireworks display.”

Flint laughed. 

“Just trying to lend a helping hand.”

“I was going to invite you to stay for roasted mush-mallows, but maybe you should just go,” said Buzz, visibly irritated.

“Sure, I hate those things anyway.” Flint sauntered away, fire crackling behind him.

“I told you he was a pyro,” Jonah whispered to Clay.

How did he do it, Clay wondered, watching Flint go. 

Did he have gunpowder on his fingers? 

A lighter up his sleeve? 

For the second time, Clay was stumped by one of Flint’s magic tricks. 

As much as he disliked Flint, Clay couldn’t help being impressed by his skill.

The mush-mallows were not mushy marshmallows, as Clay had hoped, but rather mushrooms roasted on sticks, marshmallow-style. 

Buzz claimed that the mushrooms, which were a very rare species found only on Price Island, had a marshmallow-like sweetness, but to Clay they tasted like dirt. 

About this one subject, he agreed with Flint. 

When Buzz wasn’t looking, Clay spit his mushroom into his hand and discreetly dropped it to the ground.

While the others roasted more mushrooms, Clay sat on a log, gazing into the campfire, unable to get the mysterious reading girl out of his head. 

He kept seeing her in the tower window, her red hair seeming to engulf her head in flames.

Who was she? 

Why was she hiding? 

What was her secret?

Finally, when he couldn’t bear it any longer, Clay pointed in the library’s direction. 

“Hey, what’s up with that tower over there—you know, the one past the ruins?” he asked, hoping that his breezy tone would keep Buzz from suspecting that he had crossed the Wall of Trust. 

“I saw it from a distance when I was walking Como, and I wondered what was inside.”

“Ah, the Price Public Library,” said Buzz, his expression not giving much away. 

“One of the world’s biggest rare book collections, that’s what’s inside.”

“You ever go in?” Clay asked, trying to hide his eagerness.

Buzz shook his head. 

“It’s outside the Wall of Trust.”

“You’re a counselor!” said Pablo.

“Nobody is supposed to go in,” said Buzz. 

“Price left strict instructions in his will.”

“And nobody’s ever tried?” asked Clay.

“Oh, a few have tried,” said Buzz, looking hard at Clay. 

“We moved the Wall of Trust because of what happened.”

“Why? What happened?” Clay’s leg started to jiggle. 

Did Buzz know he’d been there? 

It almost seemed like it.

“A ghost!” joked Kwan. 

“That’s what Jonah thinks.”

“Oh, shut up,” said Jonah.

“Actually, you’re not too far off.”

Buzz glanced around the group. 

“You guys want to hear a ghost story?”

“This is a campfire, isn’t it?” said Kwan.

“Just make sure there’s lots of blood,” said Pablo.

“Only a little blood, but lots of gold,” said Buzz.

“Like gold gold?” asked Kwan. 

“Or like money?”

“Both,” said Buzz. 

“Do you all know what alchemy is?” 

“Kind of like magical chemistry, right?” said Jonah. 

“Like from the Middle Ages?”

“More or less,” said Buzz. 

“Among other things, the alchemists believed that with the right recipe, they could turn lead into gold.”*

He threw a big log onto the fire. 

It blazed high in the night.

“As the legend goes, Randolph Price was a poor street kid when he stumbled on the lost secrets of the alchemists. 

Where and how, he never revealed, naturally. 

But he brought their ancient magic into the modern world.

He performed tricks on street corners. 

Predicted future headlines. 

Cured sick pets. 

Turned lead pencils into gold pens.”

“That sounds pretty lucrative,” said Kwan.

“Magicians fake that stuff all the time,” said Clay, thinking of Leira and her theory about magicians being thieves. 

“If he had any gold, it’s because he stole it.”

“Maybe so. I’m just telling you the story as it was told to me,” said Buzz. 

“When Price was sixteen, he turned his talents to stocks and bonds, and soon he had more money than he knew what to do with. People called him ‘the Wizard of Wall Street,’ not guessing that he might really be one.”

“Wait, so you do think he did magic! Like real magic?” said Kwan.

“Then came the crash of 1929…” said Buzz, ignoring him.

“What crash is that?” asked Jonah. 

Clay remembered that it was a car crash that had brought Jonah to Earth Ranch.

“Stock market crash.” 

Buzz poked at the fire with a stick. 

It blazed high again.

“Everybody went broke. Except Price. The crash only made him richer. He started traveling the world, buying stuff on the cheap.”

“Profiting off the misery of the poor. I knew it!” said Pablo.

“Paintings. Statues. Gold. Silver. He bought everything,” said Buzz. 

“But mostly books. Old books. Rare books. The more books he got, the more he worried they would be taken from him. To keep them safe, he bought his own private island—this island—and he began building a palace for himself and a tower for his books.”

“No more books,” said Kwan. 

“I thought this was a ghost story. We want dead hands reaching out of graves.”

“I’ll see what I can do,” said Buzz. 

“Just when work on the island was about to end, his brother and sister-in-law died in a crash—a real crash, a car crash. I’m sure it was very gory.”

“Cool,” said Kwan. 

“Now we’re getting somewhere.”

“Suddenly, Price had to take care of a three-year-old niece he’d never met. He brought her here, and she grew up with nobody for company but her uncle and thousands of books. You can imagine how lonely she was. It was her idea to make the library public. So there would be visitors on the island. But then Mount Forge erupted and Price Palace caught on fire. The entire place burned down, along with everything in it. Price was in the library at the time, and it was barely touched.”

“But the niece was in the palace?” asked Jonah.

Buzz nodded, his eyes seeming to reflect not just the campfire in front of him but also the memory of the burning palace. 

“She was twelve years old. Price blamed himself—and his magic—for her death. Afterward, he became a hermit, locked up in his library. Never saw anybody but his caretaker. When he died, he left money for this camp, and strict instructions to keep the library closed.  Forever.”

“What about the ghost part?” asked Pablo.

“Yeah, has anybody had any mysterious accidents?” asked Kwan. 

“Or heard spooky sounds at night?”

Buzz shook his head. 

“Nothing like that. But over the years, three campers have claimed to see a girl in a tower window reading a book.”

He looked so serious, nobody said anything for a second.

“What—what does she look like—the girl in the window?” stammered Clay. 

He’d had an uncomfortable tingling in the back of his neck ever since Buzz first mentioned the niece.

“The descriptions are sketchy,” said Buzz.

“One camper said her hair was on fire; another that her hair was red with blood.”

Clay swallowed. 

There was no doubt Buzz was talking about the girl he saw.

“So what’s the big deal?” asked Pablo. 

“I mean, why did you have to move the Wall of Trust? Don’t tell me you really believe the niece’s ghost is haunting the library.”

“It doesn’t matter what I believe,” said Buzz. 

“It matters what those three campers believe.…”

“What do you mean?” asked Clay, his throat dry.

“I don’t like using words like sane or insane,” said Buzz, his face solemn in the firelight. 

“Let’s just say that ever since seeing the girl in the tower, all three campers have had a little trouble dealing with what most of us call reality. One of them is now institutionalized. Another hasn’t said a word in five years. The third… well, I’m hopeful that the third camper is going to be okay, but I keep a close watch on him.”

Clay coughed, avoiding Buzz’s eyes.

Was this his way of saying he knew Clay had been to the library? 

Was he, Clay, the third camper? 

Or was there somebody else at camp who had also seen the girl in the window? 

Perhaps even somebody else in his cabin?

He looked around at his cabinmates, but he couldn’t read anything in their faces except that they were getting very sleepy.

Late that night, Clay was replaying Buzz’s ghost story in his mind when his attention was caught by the sound of Jonah murmuring in the bunk below. 

“Fire… fire…” he seemed to be saying.

Clay leaned over the bunk.

Jonah was sitting up, but his eyes were glazed. 

He didn’t look quite awake.

“What’s wrong?” Clay whispered. 

“Do you smell fire or something?”

Jonah didn’t answer, just repeated, “Fire… Fire…”

“Jonah, can you hear me?”

There was no response. 

He was still asleep. 

Maybe he was dreaming about the Price Palace fire? 

Could Jonah be the third camper?

“Jonah, wake up!” 

Clay whispered a little more loudly.

But Jonah kept staring straight ahead. 

His expression never changing, he slipped out of his sleeping bag, got to his feet, and headed for the door. 

The rest of the cabin remained asleep.

Remembering the story about Jonah sleepwalking all the way into the lake, Clay climbed down to the floor and hurried after him. 

He didn’t want to have to fish a sleeping boy out of the water.

Clay stepped out of the cabin just in time to see somebody running away in the dark, and to see the bathroom shack burst into flames—sudden, roaring flames—as if it had been doused in kerosene, then lit with a match.

Clay stared for a second, paralyzed by surprise. 

Then he saw Jonah, still asleep, walking directly toward the fire.

“Jonah! Fire!” Clay screamed.

He ran and grabbed Jonah, startling him awake.

“Let go of me!” Jonah yelled. 

“What are you doing?”

“Saving you!”

Jonah looked at him in confusion. 

“From what?”

“What’s going on out there?”

Buzz asked, leaning out of the cabin.

“Quick, get a hose or a fire extinguisher!” Clay shouted.

Kwan appeared behind Buzz. 

“Where’s the fire?”

“What do you mean? It’s right there—”

Clay turned back to the bathroom hut: The fire had gone out. 

Completely. 

There wasn’t a wisp of smoke left. 

Even stranger, there was no evidence that the fire had ever been there. 

Clay took a step closer. 

There was nothing burned, nothing charred.

“Jonah, do you know what this is about?” Buzz asked.

“No, I just woke up,” said Jonah. 

“This crazy kook dragged me outside in my sleep!”

“I did not! You were sleepwalking. And you were about to—”

Clay stopped in the middle of his sentence. 

While he was speaking, Flint had strolled up.

“Maybe you were the one sleepwalking, Worm,” he said to Clay.

“I wasn’t sleepwalking,” said Clay through gritted teeth.

So it had been Flint whose shadow he’d seen running away. 

Figures, thought Clay.

“Then maybe you saw a reflection of my flashlight and thought it was a fire,” said Flint, turning on his flashlight.

“I know what I saw,” said Clay. 

“What’re you doing out here, anyway?”

“I went out to take a leak. You got a problem with that, Worm?” 

Flint stepped right up to Clay and shined his flashlight in Clay’s face.

“Leave him alone, Flint. 

He made a mistake, that’s all,” said Buzz. 

“C’mon back inside, Clay.

”Confused and embarrassed, Clay followed his counselor back into the cabin—only to find sprinklers raining from the ceiling. Everything—and everyone—was drenched. Clay pinched his nose. The sulfurous smell of the camp water was almost overpowering.

“We heard you yell ‘fire,’” said Pablo, water dripping from his chin. 

“So we set off the alarm.”

“Sorry,” Clay muttered.

From the furious looks on the faces of his cabinmates, he could tell he wouldn’t be forgiven anytime soon.

As he climbed onto his bunk, a crumpled piece of paper fell out of his pocket onto his wet sleeping bag. 

He unfolded it and found a short note scrawled inside.

STAY AWAY FROM HER, it read.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

THE SWIM TEST

I don’t know about you, but I heard a lot of scary stories about summer camp when I was growing up. 

Snakes in sleeping bags. 

Underwear raids. 

Hands put in warm water to make you wet your bed.

Clay had heard those stories, too, and for the next couple of days, he kept looking over his shoulder and checking his sleeping bag, never allowing himself to close his eyes for very long. 

He knew his cabinmates were sore about getting drenched with water, and he was sure they would take revenge on him in some terrible and humiliating way.

He experienced no retribution, however, except for a few dirty looks, and eventually he stopped worrying about the Worms. 

His thoughts kept turning back to his strange sighting at the U-BRARY. 

What was it that he—and three other campers—had seen? 

If not a ghost, then who or what was the girl in the window—a real girl in hiding? 

A mass hallucination brought on by the vog? 

More than anything else, she seemed like a figure from a dream. 

But then there was the crumpled warning he’d received. 

Why would somebody want him to stay away from her if she wasn’t real?

He assumed the note came from Flint; Clay was almost certain Flint was the mysterious third camper. 

The pyro-magician, as Clay thought of him, must have created the illusion that the bathroom was burning in order to scare Clay off. 

Clay told himself to be brave and confront the older boy, but the few times they crossed paths, Clay found himself looking down.

Meanwhile, he waited for an opportunity to return to the U-BRARY.

He had to see the girl again. 

He had to know who she was. 

Or what.

Three nights after the false fire alarm, Clay awoke to a strange howling sound coming from across the cabin.

He looked over and saw someone—no, something—sitting up in Pablo’s bed.

Something with stringy red hair, a lumpy gray face, and a tattered white gown.

Clay gasped… then saw that it was just a doll—an ugly ghost doll—lit from below by a flashlight. 

It looked like a bad Halloween display.

“Very funny, guys,” said Clay. 

“It’s the ghost girl from the ruins. I get it.”

Scarier than the doll itself was the idea that they thought it would scare him; did that mean they knew he’d been to the library and that he’d seen the ghost?

“You can all stop pretending to sleep now. Pablo, where are you, anyway?”

Nobody moved. 

Either they were all really asleep or they were doing a good job pretending they were.

Suddenly, Clay started to feel nervous. 

Maybe the doll wasn’t a practical joke by his cabinmates; maybe it was another warning from Flint.

Cautiously, Clay climbed out of his bed. 

Expecting to find another note, he took a closer look at the doll.

The hair was made from Jonah’s red rope licorice, the head was a potato, and the girlie face was drawn with a pen. 

The doll couldn’t have been cruder, but it was frightening-looking nonetheless.

As Clay studied the doll, the howling began again, and—“Aaack!” 

Clay screamed, and jumped backward.—the doll started climbing out of bed. 

By itself.

About knee-high, the puppet-like creature had a paint-can body, and arms and legs made from rusty pipes and springs—all connected to its potato head by a jumble of wires. 

It looked like a cross between Mr. Potato Head and the Tin Man—with long red hair and lipstick.

It lurched toward Clay.

“What is that? Somebody, stop it!” Clay yelled, now truly terrified.

The others burst into laughter. 

They were all awake after all.

Clay exhaled, relieved but deeply embarrassed.

“Dude, you should see your face right now!” said Kwan.

“Okay, very funny, what is that thing?” asked Clay as it teetered and finally fell over just before reaching him.

“That’s Pablo’s tater-bot,” said Jonah. 

“His potato-robot.”

Pablo, who had been crouching in the corner, picked up the tater-bot and set it lumbering in Clay’s direction again.

“We’re not supposed to have technology here, but they made an exception because Pablo made him all from recycled parts,” said Kwan.

“Well, except for the potato,” Pablo corrected. 

“I have to give him a new head every week or he starts to rot. That’s where his power comes from.”

“His power?” echoed Clay.

“Yeah, haven’t you ever made a potato battery? See those wires—they make it all happen,” said Pablo, pointing to the curling wires surrounding the tater-bot’s head.

“Uh, not really,” said Clay.* 

“Hey—”

The tater-bot was poking him with its extended exhaust-pipe arm.

“He wants to shake your hand.”

“Uh, okay.” 

Clay did his best. 

“Hi.”

“His name is Cal, short for Caliban,” said Pablo.

Clay looked at Pablo in surprise. 

“Caliban, like in The Tempest?”

“What? You think just ’cause I don’t go to school, I don’t know Shakespeare?”

“Sorry. It’s just—never mind.”

The tater-bot backed away from Clay a few paces, as if it were just as insulted as Pablo.

“So, all this time, you’ve been hiding him under your bed, waiting for the best time to freak me out?” Clay asked.

“Uh-huh. Pretty much,” said Pablo, grinning.

Well, here was one question answered: The tater-bot was the mystery object Clay had seen peeking out from Pablo’s sleeping bag.

“Look on the bright side,” said Kwan. 

“Now we got you back. We don’t have to hate you anymore.”

“Well, that’s a relief,” said Clay.

And it was.

A week later, Clay stood nervously on the dock next to the other Worms. 

It was time for their swim test.

According to Buzz, who was standing in front of them, their destination, Egg Rock, was exactly one-eighth mile from shore. 

“A long or short distance, depending on how strong a swimmer you are.”

Clay was not a very strong swimmer. 

He had never been given a single swimming lesson, not by his brother (who swam even less well than he threw) or his parents (who believed Clay should teach himself). 

Clay could float, but forward motion was a challenge.

Still, it wasn’t the prospect of the swim itself that was making him nervous; it was the guy standing on the rock, waving at them. 

Flint.

Supposedly, Flint was a certified lifeguard and was there to ensure that nobody drowned, but based on prior experience, Clay had his doubts about how helpful Flint would be in an emergency.

“Ready, Worms?” asked Buzz. 

“Go for it. And may the Force be with you.”

Clay hung back and went last. 

It wasn’t required, but everyone else had entered the lake via the rope swing, and Clay felt like he had to do so as well. 

He swung back and forth over the water a few times—to get the hang of it, he told himself—before letting go. 

The rope dropped him about twelve feet above the water, and he made a big splash as he plunged in feet-first. 

He was expecting the bottom to be sandy like the ocean; instead, it was squishy and slimy. 

Gross, in other words. 

He pushed himself up as fast as he could.

Once he surfaced, he tried to break into a proper crawl stroke, but he had trouble breathing and he kept doing a frog kick rather than keeping his legs straight. 

After a couple of minutes of flailing around, he settled into a slow and awkward side-stroke. 

It was a little embarrassing—an old-lady style of swimming—but he tried not to think about what he looked like. 

All he had to do was swim to the rock and back.

Ahead, he could hear the first swimmer getting to the rock. 

It was Kwan, who cheered loudly for himself after climbing to the top. 

Typical, Clay thought.

Then—splash!—Kwan jumped back in.

“Took you long enough.”

Clay was dizzy and breathing hard by the time he reached Egg Rock. 

Flint’s smirking face stared down at him from behind a pair of dark sunglasses.

“You going to come up or what, Worm?”

Clay looked for a place to climb up, but the rock was covered with moss on all sides. 

An orange kayak bobbed nearby, tethered from above.

“What’s the problem? Can’t find a good spot?”

Flint held out his hand to pull Clay out of the water… then yanked his hand away as Clay reached for it. 

Luckily, Clay was prepared, and he managed to have his mouth closed when he fell back in. 

If that was all Flint had planned for him, Clay thought, he could handle it.

He swam all the way around the rock until he found a crevice that was relatively moss-free. 

Mercifully, Flint let him climb up in peace.

The older boy was now lying on a towel that he had managed to transport, dry, across the lake. 

In his hand was a paperback book with a bright blue cover, also perfectly dry. 

He looked like he was on vacation, not lifeguard duty. 

He touched his finger to his sunglasses in mock salute.

“Hate to be the one to tell you this, but maybe you shouldn’t try out for the Olympic swim team.”

“Thanks for the tip,” Clay muttered.

Anxious to get off the rock as fast as possible, Clay waved toward the shore. 

Buzz gave him a thumbs-up and motioned for him to swim back.

During his time in the water, the younger girls’ cabin had joined the boys on the dock.

Clay could see Leira, in her trademark hat and suspenders, standing next to the rope swing. 

When she saw him looking at her, she turned around.

Flint laughed.

“Somebody mad at you?”

Clay was inclined to get back into the water without responding, but instead he looked squarely at Flint. 

“What do you have against me? What did I do?”

“Who says you did anything?” said Flint. 

“Maybe I just don’t like you.”

“This is what I don’t understand,” said Clay, ready to jump if Flint took a swing at him or threatened him in any way. 

“Why go through so much hassle just to mess with me?”

“What hassle?”

“That fire thing, for starters. When you made it look like the bathroom caught on fire. What did you use? A projector? A mirror? That kind of magic takes a lot of work.”

Clay knew what he was talking about. 

When he was younger, he and his brother would go to magic shows together, with the express purpose of figuring out how magicians created their illusions. 

Occasionally, they themselves tried to make things levitate or disappear with the aid of mirrors, not often very successfully.

“And where am I going to get a mirror that size around here?” Flint scoffed.

“But you admit you faked it.”

“No.”

“So what are you saying? It was a real fire that just vanished?”

“If you knew anything about magic, you wouldn’t be asking that,” Flint snarled, standing up.

“Fine. I won’t ask.… What about the note? Why do you want me to stay away from her?”

“Who?”

“You know who. The girl in the library.”

Flint’s nostrils flared. 

“She’s mine.”

“Why? Did you meet her? Did you talk to her?”

“I don’t need to. I saw her.”

He glared at Clay.

From the shore came a shrill whistle.

“Get going, Clay!” shouted Buzz through a bullhorn.

“You heard him,” said Flint. 

“Get going.”

He took a step toward Clay. 

His eyes were wild.

Clay meant to stand his ground, but in his anxiety he took an involuntary step backward and slipped on the moss.

Later he would rehearse the fall in his mind, trying to determine whether it had been an accident or whether Flint had tripped him somehow. 

At the moment, however, the only thing Clay was conscious of was the pain in his ankle and the sound of his skull slamming against rock.

Then…… blackness…

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
NURSE CORA

… clink… clank…… 

plink… plunk… PLONK…… 

cling… clang… cling…… 

ding… ding… ding…… 

DONG…… 

ping…

At first, Clay thought it was his alarm clock, waking him for school. 

When he opened his eyes, he saw that the sound he was hearing was not his alarm; it was the sound of hundreds of bells and chimes of many sizes and shapes. 

They hung from the ceiling above him alongside crystals and dream catchers and amulets of all sorts, alternately refracting rainbows and casting shadows around the room.

Somewhere out of sight, a bird shrieked repeatedly—Caw… Caw… Caw…—adding another urgent note to the cacophony.

“Good, you’re awake. That means you’re not dead… yet.” 

A woman looked down at him. 

She had a face like a shrunken apple, but not unpleasant.

Clay sat up to get a better look. 

Immediately, he became aware of pain in the back of his head.

“I’m Nurse Cora.”

“Hi,” Clay said, and started coughing.

Nurse Cora, Clay saw, was very short. 

Her standing height was approximately the same as his sitting.

Beautiful in a munchkin-like way, she had long, thick silver hair that reached nearly to the floor and wrapped around her like a shiny coat. 

Had she been just a little bit smaller, you might have put her in a box and given her to a child to play with.

Next to her was a tall bamboo birdcage that was home to a parakeet whose shrill shrieks Clay deduced he had been hearing.

“My head hurts,” said Clay.

“I’m sorry, you’ll have to speak up,” said Nurse Cora. 

“I’m deaf in one ear.”

Clay thought she must be deaf in the other ear as well; there was no way she would be able to tolerate the noise of the bells and the bird otherwise.

“I said, my head hurts.”

“There would be something wrong if it didn’t,” said the nurse matter-of-factly. 

“You slammed it against a rock and then you almost drowned.”

“Drowned?”

“Flint fished you out. Wasn’t too happy about it, either, I gather.”

Yeah, I’m sure he wasn’t, thought Clay.

“Don’t worry—you’re going to be fine… probably. Sometimes the effects of an injury like yours are delayed. There is always the possibility of a sudden cerebral hemorrhage. Or brain damage, of course,” she added sweetly. 

“Let me get you something to make you feel better.”

She walked over to a small table that served as a kind of kitchen with a Bunsen burner and a toaster oven, and she poured from a pitcher of clear liquid with mint leaves and slices of cucumber. 

Behind her, vials of oils and unguents and jars of herbs filled the shelves alongside many obscure and out-of-date-looking medical textbooks seemingly in every language but English.

“Is that some sort of medicine?”

“The best kind. Water.” 

Clay sipped. 

The water was refreshing, he had to admit. 

The mint counteracted the sulfur taste of the island’s water. 

It didn’t make his head feel any better, however.

“How long have I been here?” 

He half expected her to say days or even weeks.

“Just about an hour… Well, you seem well enough for me to leave you for a moment. Buzz will want to know right away that you’ve woken up.”

“Um, okay. But could I not have visitors for a while? I think I want to rest.”

The nurse studied him.

“Very well. But I don’t want you going back to sleep—it could be dangerous. I’ll be back soon.”

The bells tinkled as she left.

Clay got out of bed as soon as the door closed behind her. 

He was still in his damp bathing suit, but thankfully somebody had brought a pile of clothes for him. 

It was sitting on a chair beside the bed, next to a stack of books. 

He waited a moment for his dizziness to subside, then dressed as quickly as he could.

He’d been waiting for days for a chance to revisit the library. 

This was an opportunity he could not pass up.

In his hurry, Clay bumped into someone as soon as he exited the infirmary.

“Sorry!” he exclaimed. 

“I didn’t—oh, it’s you!”

Leira looked him up and down from under the brim of her hat. 

“So you’re okay? I heard you were unconscious, maybe even in a coma.”

“Disappointed?”

“A little,” Leira admitted.

“I thought you would be lying on a stone slab, all bandaged up like a mummy. But I guess this way is better. Now you can apologize to me for what a jerk you were. I wouldn’t want you to go to your grave feeling guilty about it.”

Clay smiled. 

“Is that your way of saying you were worried about me?”

Leira smiled back. 

“Maybe.”

“Okay, I apologize,” said Clay. 

“I’m sorry I said that stuff. Even though I didn’t think you were listening—I probably shouldn’t have said it anyway. I don’t think you’re annoying; I think you’re cool. Well, sometimes annoying, but still—”

“So you won’t mind if I steal your wallet again?”

“Well—”

“Check your pocket.”

He patted his pocket. 

Sure enough, his wallet was missing again. 

“Aargh. You are so annoying! When did you take it?”

She grinned. 

“Never let a pickpocket bump into you if you can help it.”

“I’ll remember that.… Now give me my wallet back.”

“First tell me where you were going when I bumped into you.”

“I wasn’t going anywhere, just… getting some fresh air.”

Leira laughed. 

“You are the worst actor in the world.”

“Okay, I was going back to my cabin.”

She gave him a look. 

“You’d better do better than that if you want your wallet back.”

Clay weighed his options. 

“Fine. Promise not to tell?”

“No. I don’t make promises.”

“It doesn’t matter—you won’t tell anyway. Thieves’ honor, or whatever.”

“That only applies if you’re a thief, too.”

“You want me to tell you or not?!”

Clay looked around to make sure they were still unobserved, and then he told her briefly about his llama running away from him and his subsequent discovery of the library. 

He left out the minor detail of seeing a girl who might or might not have been a ghost.

“So you crossed the Wall of Trust and you didn’t get caught?” 

She whistled, impressed.

Clay nodded. 

“And now I want to see if there’s a way into the library.”

“You mean you want to see if the ghost girl is real.”

Clay coughed in surprise. 

“What? How do you know?”

“That’s what happened to everybody else who went up there, isn’t it?”

“Well, you’re not going with me,” said Clay, peeved. 

“We’re more likely to get caught if there’s two of us.”

“Who says I want to go? I’d much rather get credit for telling on you.”

Clay gritted his teeth. 

“You wouldn’t!”

Leira rolled her eyes. 

“Of course not. I guess I’m just not all that interested in seeing a bunch of books.”

“Right. I remember. Your sister’s the bookworm, not you.”

Leira wrinkled her face in confusion. 

“What sister? I don’t have a sister.”

“Yes, you do.”

“No, I don’t. I’m the one who should know, aren’t I?”

“When we were weeding, I was talking about my brother, and you said your sister was a bookworm.”

Leira laughed. 

“Okay. Whatever you say. Maybe hitting your head really affected you after all. Because you are definitely imagining things.”

Clay shook his head. 

He wasn’t imagining anything. 

He knew—absolutely, positively—that Leira had mentioned a sister. 

Which meant that either she was lying then or she was lying now. 

But why would someone lie about a thing like that? 

Maybe Leira just really hated her sibling?

“Now listen to me,” said Leira. 

“You got lucky last time. If you don’t want to get caught before you go three feet, then you better go the back way, by that old barn.”

“What old barn?” 

Leira shook her head in disgust.

“How were you going to get there if I didn’t help you? Did you have any kind of plan at all?”

“Just tell me where to go,” said Clay, irritated. 

“And by the way, what happened to giving me back my wallet?”

Leira giggled, and handed him his wallet. 

“You are so gullible. It wasn’t even in your pants before. I only have it because I found it outside your cabin door.”

After giving him directions to the library, Leira told Clay to wait one minute before leaving—if anybody was nearby, she’d warn him—and she slipped out the door.

That was when he noticed that his wallet, still in his hand, felt a little stiffer than he remembered.

Curious, he looked inside. 

In the hidden compartment, he found a laminated card.

PRICE PUBLIC LIBRARY 

it said in elegant black letters over a drawing of the library tower. 

His name was typed below.

It was a library card.

Somebody wanted him to go back to the U-BRARY.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN, PART 2

THE BACK WAY

To get to the library via the “back way,” Clay had to hike up the trail that had first brought him to Earth Ranch. 

Then he was to follow the ridge around the camp, making a circle around the ruins.

From the ridge, he could see Pablo and Jonah standing on ladders in the banana grove. 

They were cutting off clumps of bananas and tossing them down to Kwan.* 

Clay experienced a pang of guilt; he should be helping. 

Of course, he had almost drowned today. 

Shouldn’t he get a get-out-of-banana-picking-free pass? 

He kept going.

After a few minutes, the trail dipped down to a small creek and passed through a forest of ferns so tall, Clay could walk under them without crouching. 

The vog was dense here, and Clay had trouble seeing where he was going. 

Feathery fern fronds tickled his face, and he slipped a few times in the mud.

At first he thought it was just the ferns making him jumpy, but soon he became convinced that he was being watched.

And/or followed.

“Leira, I know you’re out there,” he said loudly.

There was no answer.

“C’mon. Just walk with me. This is stupid.”

Still no answer. 

Maybe it wasn’t Leira. 

Maybe it was Flint, who wanted to keep Clay from seeing the ghost girl again. 

But then why wait—why not accost Clay now? 

He kept hiking.

The real question was how the library card had made its way into his wallet. 

If Leira was telling the truth and she’d really found his wallet lying outside his cabin, then anybody might have slipped the card in. 

But who? 

And why?

Perhaps the ghost girl had escaped the library, planted the card in his wallet, and was now escorting him back to her cold stone tower home? 

Clay glanced around for a second, as if she might float by or appear out of thin air. 

Then he laughed at himself for even entertaining the possibility.

Leira had said it should take about twenty minutes to reach the barn, but he had now been hiking for almost an hour. 

He was beginning to think he might have taken a wrong turn, when he saw a gray wooden structure with a moss-covered roof. 

According to Leira, the barn was the oldest building on the island, and indeed it appeared to be on the verge of collapse. 

That is, if the surrounding jungle didn’t overtake it first.

As he drew closer, Clay was startled by the sound of barks coming from inside the barn—startled and scared, because the barn’s door was hanging off its hinges. 

Whatever stray dog lurked inside could jump out at any second. 

The barking grew louder, but the dog never appeared. 

Clay hurried past, not taking his eyes off the barn door.

From there Clay pushed his way through a thicket of bushes, just as Leira had instructed, and he came right up on the back of the U-BRARY.

For a second time, the bees did not bother him. 

They buzzed around the library tower without paying him any notice. 

Clay was beginning to think that Pablo had exaggerated their vigilance. 

Either that or they had decided to let Clay enter their domain unmolested. 

Was it possible they wanted him to visit the library? 

The thought was reassuring and unnerving at the same time.

Without really thinking about it, Clay had assumed he would find the red-haired girl in the window again, and he felt a sharp pang of disappointment when he didn’t see her. 

He tried to brush away the feeling. 

What had he expected—that she would be waiting for him with balloons and a welcome sign? 

He would just have to work harder to find her this time, that was all.

Ginning up his courage, he knocked on the front doors of the library. 

He was greeted by silence.

He knocked on the side door in the stairwell. 

Silence again.

He knocked on one of the boarded-up windows. 

More silence.

Then he walked around the library tower looking for vines to climb, windows to pry open, secret doors to enter.

The library was a fortress. 

Still determined to get inside, Clay returned to the side door in the stairwell. 

He rotated the alphabetical combination lock built into the door, putting his ear to the dial and listening for clicks and ticks like a safecracker in a movie.  

On the first rotation, he heard nothing, but after he slowed down for the second rotation he was rewarded by a clicking sound at the letter P.

P for Price!? 

Could it be that easy?

He turned the dial the other way. 

Sure enough, there was a click when he got to R.

Excited, he turned the dial again, listening for the click when he got to I, but he heard nothing. 

He tried several more times, unwilling to give up, but eventually he had to concede that PRICE was not the combination. 

He tried a few other letters—PRA for PRAY? PRE for PRESENT?—with no luck.

In reality, he had no idea what he was doing. 

Word games were his brother’s specialty, not his.*

Feeling like a fool, he walked back up the stairs. 

When he turned around for a last look, he noticed for the first time the words carved into the stone above the stairwell: 

I’ll break my staff,
Bury it certain fathoms in the earth,
And, deeper than did ever plummet sound,
I’ll drown my book.

The Tempest! Yet again!  

Those were Prospero’s words. 

The words that had made Clay clench his fists onstage weeks before. 

The words that were the basis for Mr. Bailey’s confounding essay question. 

The words that led Clay to Price Island, and ultimately to this very place.

Then it struck him: The combination wasn’t PRICE; it was PROSPERO.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
INSIDE

Beware the U-BRARY.

The pilot’s words reverberated in the back of Clay’s mind, making his palms sweat as he pushed on the stubborn library door. 

Clay had the feeling that the door hadn’t been opened for years, and for a moment he wondered why he should be opening it now.

Nobody was making him enter the library. 

He would only get in trouble for it—or go mad, like the others. 

This was needless bravery.

Before he could change his mind—crrrreak!—the rusty hinges finally gave way, and Clay fell forward into the cool, quiet interior.

As soon as he was inside, he saw why the door was so heavy: It was hidden behind a bookshelf laden with thick leather-bound tomes.

Clay tried to leave the door ajar, but it swung shut as soon as he let go. 

So much for his escape route!

Clay brushed cobwebs off his shirt as his eyes adjusted to the dim and dusty light. 

He was standing on a sort of endless balcony that spiraled around the interior of the tower like a corkscrew. 

As it went upward, the balcony became narrower and narrower, hugging the walls more and more closely, ultimately coming to a point just before reaching the ceiling. 

There it met a large round skylight covered with decades of dirt and bird droppings. 

At the same time, the balcony grew wider and wider as it traveled downward, creating the illusion that it was spinning beneath his feet.

From where Clay stood, the library appeared to sink deep underground—like the rabbit hole in Alice in Wonderland. 

Exactly how far, Clay couldn’t tell, because a massive indoor banyan tree was blocking his view. 

He estimated that the base of the tree was several stories below ground level, making the library at least twice as large as it had looked from the outside.

If only he’d had his skateboard. 

The library balcony would have made an awesome skating ramp. 

It was a crime that it remained unused.*

There was a thumping sound. 

Clay stiffened. 

It was footsteps. 

Or maybe something falling. 

From down below. 

Or maybe it came from above. 

He couldn’t tell. 

The circular walls created an odd, oscillating echo effect.

“Hello?” His voice came out in a whisper.

“Hello, is anybody here?” he tried again.

There was no response. 

Only the strange echo.

Clay waited a moment, his legs jiggling. 

As far as he could tell, he was alone. 

There were no more sounds. 

No signs of life other than the occasional spider sitting in wait or dropping from the ceiling to spin another web.

Walk, he told himself. 

Move.

Go.

There was almost too much to look at.

The dark mahogany bookshelves that lined the walls of the library were full to overflowing, not just with books but with all manner of curiosities and art objects. 

Not to mention, books that were curiosities or art objects in and of themselves. 

As Clay walked slowly and cautiously upward, he passed treasures large and small: elaborately painted vases from China and Greece.

Antique microscopes, telescopes, and gyroscopes, and other relics of the scientific revolution. 

Fossils, corals, and shells from the seven seas. 

There were crystals and meteorites and a collection of volcanic rocks culled, according to their labels, not just from Price Island but from volcanoes the world over.

On one wall, stone tablets etched with obscure cuneiform symbols were propped up on steel shelves. 

Another wall was covered with framed papyrus pages decorated with Egyptian hieroglyphs. 

Still another wall was devoted entirely to a collection of miniature books housed in miniature libraries that were decorated with miniature artwork, miniature desks, and miniature globes.

Everything was meticulously organized and labeled with identifying characteristics and call numbers. 

Even the nonliterary artifacts seemed to have been adapted to the Dewey decimal system.* 

Clay had the feeling that if he moved anything an inch, somebody would notice. 

But of course the library’s owner was long dead. 

For all Clay knew, he was the first living person to enter the library in decades. 

It was like walking through an enormous tomb full of books—enough books to last an eternity, if you happened to be a ghost-in-residence.

Clay stopped at the library’s locked front doors. 

Directly across from them was a long desk that looked not unlike the checkout desk at Clay’s local library. 

Nearby was a bank of wooden cabinets, composed of small, alphabetically labeled drawers—several hundred of them, Clay guessed. 

This bank of cabinets, by the way, is called a card catalog. 

(A card catalog contains cards identifying all the books in a library; once upon a time, every library had one.) 

The Price Public Library was set up to be a fully functioning lending library, although it seemed unlikely that Price would ever have lent any of his books; most of them looked much too rare and valuable.

Clay noticed that one of the drawers in the card catalog had been left open. 

A card was sticking out conspicuously from the others: 
Price, Randolph A. 1901–1985
Memoirs (incomplete)

Clay thought about the library card in his wallet. 

Had the card catalog intentionally been left open for him by the same mysterious benefactor?

Clay couldn’t have said what made him aware of her presence—a faint stirring of the air?—but he turned around and there she was, standing before him. 

The red-haired, pale-cheeked mystery girl from the library window.

Her hair was pulled back in a ponytail, and she was wearing a navy polka-dot dress, white socks, and shiny black shoes of the type (although Clay didn’t know it) known as Mary Janes. 

She may not have looked like a ghost, or not like what you expect a ghost to look like, but she certainly didn’t look like she was part of the modern world. 

If anything, she looked like a girl from the 1950s on her way to a sock hop.

He sensed that she was very afraid. 

It could have been the dimness of the light, but it seemed to Clay that fear was draining the color from her face.

He wanted to tell her that she had no reason to fear him—that he meant no harm. 

But before he could say anything, she put her finger to her lips. 

At once, he realized it wasn’t him she was afraid of. 

Silently, she moved behind the checkout desk and motioned for him to follow.

As he crouched down next to her, he thought he could feel her cool breath on his shoulder. 

He wanted to touch her, to confirm she was real, but he didn’t dare. 

She sat very still but trembling slightly, alert to danger like a deer in the presence of a hunter. 

Lumbering footsteps echoed around them.

Clay caught only a few brief glimpses of the man passing by, but they were enough to paint a picture: Dark rubbery coat. 

Stained overalls. 

Big leather work gloves. 

Protective goggles.

Lumpy, blotchy, scabby bald scalp. 

There was no way to tell how old the man was. 

Nor could Clay tell how tall he was; he was too stooped over. 

Judging from his limping gait, he had been injured in some way. 

And yet he projected strength. 

His muscles bulged defiantly, unwilling to hide under his coat.

He held an old brass torch in his hand. 

As Clay watched, the man stopped, tapped the canister, and pressed on the nozzle, testing the flame. 

Clay couldn’t help imagining him using the torch as a weapon to ward off unwanted intruders.

Seemingly satisfied, the man limped away, heading into the depths of the library.

For a few moments, the red-haired girl remained hidden behind the desk with her finger to her lips. 

Finally, she stood, her dress grazing his shoulder. 

At least her clothes are real, he thought.

“You must leave right now,” she whispered urgently.

“Why? Who are you? Who was that man?” Clay whispered back.

“That man is my uncle, and he is the only person allowed in the library. Nobody else. Not even me… officially. There’s no saying what he’ll do if he sees you.”

“Don’t I have a second at least? It looked like he was going to fix something.”

“He has a workshop in the boiler room. Sometimes he’s in there for hours, but sometimes only minutes—” She looked stricken.

“Isn’t there somewhere we can hide? I have to talk to you. Please.” 

Clay felt as though he were being let in on the first real secret of his life. 

He couldn’t leave without knowing more.

The girl hesitated. 

It seemed to Clay that part of her wanted him to stay.

“All right. In there.” 

She pointed to a door.

She led him into a large underground room that looked something like a laboratory with a long counter, a sink as big as a bathtub, and jars and jars of solvents and glue. 

Shelves were piled with papers and cardboards of varying weights, as well as leather and thread. 

It was a room for restoring and repairing books, but it looked like it had not been used in years.

The girl hovered nervously while Clay inspected the shelves. 

There was an awkward silence.

Clay didn’t know where to start. 

“I’m Clay, I go to the camp.”

“Camp?”

“You know, Earth Ranch. Right down the hill.”

“Oh, yes, the camp,” she said vaguely. 

Clay had the impression that she’d never heard of it, which was close to impossible, given that Earth Ranch was the only other habitation on the island.

“What’s your name?” he asked.

“Mira. Pleased to make your acquaintance, I’m sure.” 

Clay laughed. 

“Pleased to make your acquaintance, I’m sure,” he repeated.

“Are you mocking me?”

“No, of course not,” he said hastily. 

He didn’t want to offend her. 

He was sure she would run away at the slightest provocation. 

“So, what are you doing here? I mean, do you live on the island or what?”

“I summer on the island… well, in the library,” said Mira, no longer whispering, but still with hesitation in her voice.

“Summer?” 

Clay had never heard the word used as a verb before.

“Yes, I spend summers here.”

“What about the rest of the year?”

“Oh. I… I go to boarding school,” she said, as though she’d almost forgotten.

Mira explained that she was an orphan; her uncle Ben was her only surviving relative.

“The problem is, nobody can know I’m here because nobody’s supposed to enter the library except him; he’s the caretaker. 

It’s in Mr. Price’s will.”

“So you have to stay inside?”

“That’s right.”

“You know, people think you’re a ghost,” said Clay, studying her. 

“The ghost of Price’s niece.”

“Golly! Imagine that!” 

She seemed amused by the idea. 

It was the first time he’d seen her smile.

“She lived here with her uncle, too. That’s kind of a big coincidence, isn’t it?”

“Yes, I suppose it is.… Hey, do you think I’m her ghost and I just don’t know it?” Mira giggled. 

“Boo!”

Clay forced a laugh, though for some reason he didn’t think her idea was so funny.

“Well, if you’re not a ghost, what do you do here all day? Seems kind of… boring.”

“Oh, there’s tons to do! Read, for one. I just adore books! Positively adore them,” exclaimed Mira, forgetting her nervousness in her enthusiasm. 

“And if I’m ever tired of reading, I can always watch a picture show. There’s a projector here and everything. I absolutely adore the cinema, almost as much as books. Don’t you? I’m practically a cinema fanatic! What’s your favorite motion picture?”

“Of all time? I don’t know. I used to be really into Star Trek. Not so much the movies, though. Mostly the TV show… you know, the old-school one,” he added to make sure he didn’t sound too uncool.

“Star Trek? Is that about Hollywood stars?” she asked hopefully. 

“Where are they going on a trek to?”

“No.” Clay laughed, incredulous. 

Who didn’t know Star Trek?

“It’s science fiction. You know, spaceships and stuff?”

“Oh,” said Mira, disappointed. 

“Well, I’m going to be a big Hollywood star someday. Katharine Hepburn is my idol.”

“Who’s that?”

Now Mira looked incredulous. 

“Do you live under a rock? She’s only the greatest actress in the world! Bringing Up Baby? The Philadelphia Story?”

Clay shook his head. 

“Sorry, never heard of her.”

“Well, I just think she’s the bee’s knees. She’s a very modern woman. Can you believe she only ever wears pants?”

“So?”

“Maybe it doesn’t mean anything to you—you’re a boy. But imagine if you had to wear skirts every day. It makes it so hard to ride a bike or a horse. It’s so unfair!”

“So wear pants, then,” said Clay.

“Easy for you to say! Uncle Ben doesn’t approve.” 

Mira pouted. 

“But when I get older, I’m going to be just like Red—that’s what Cary Grant calls Katharine Hepburn. She has red hair, just like mine. You wouldn’t know it from her films, of course. They’re in black and white.”

“They must be really old.”

“True art never gets old.” 

Mira sniffed.

“How old are you, anyway?”

“What a question to ask a lady!”

Clay was now certain Mira was the oddest girl he’d ever met. 

She seemed to be locked in some kind of time capsule—as if she had stepped out of one of the old movies she loved so much. 

At the same time, there was something dream-like about her; when he was with her, the rest of the world seemed to fall away.

“Have you ever seen Citizen Kane?” asked Mira. 

“Uncle Ben made me watch it. He thinks it’s the best film of all time, but it gave me the creeps.”

“I know what you mean,” said Clay. 

“My brother likes it, too, but I think it’s boring.”*

“We agree on something, then. Maybe we can be pals after all. Deal?”

“Deal,” said Clay.

They smiled at each other.

Clay was just thinking how glad he was that he had forced his way into the library, when the door opened. 

They were caught.

Correction: Clay was caught.

Mira slunk out of sight.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
THE CUSTODIAN

You—boy! What are you doing here?”

Uncle Ben was still wearing his goggles and gloves, but he was no longer carrying a torch; he was pointing a finger in Clay’s direction. 

Clay took a step forward, a small step, to show he wasn’t afraid. 

Which was ridiculous, because of course he was afraid. 

Very afraid.

“Hi, I’m from the camp. I’m a guest of your niece,” he anxiously explained. 

“I mean, not that she invited me. She didn’t—I just kind of, um, let myself in.” 

He didn’t want to get her in trouble.

“Niece? I don’t have a niece,” Uncle Ben growled, in a voice that sounded like the revving of an outboard motor.

“Well, whatever you call her, the girl in the library, then,” said Clay.

Uncle Ben glared. 

“The only girl in this library died almost seventy years ago. Is this your idea of a joke?”

Clay glanced at Mira, who was suddenly visible again, tiptoeing out of the room. 

She nodded vehemently, signaling that Clay should play along. 

Then she slipped out the door.

“Uh, you’re right, I’m sorry,” said Clay, remembering that officially Mira wasn’t supposed to be there, either. 

“The other campers say there’s a ghost girl haunting the library, and… I guess the joke wasn’t very funny.”

“No. It wasn’t.”

Clay kept expecting Uncle Ben to wink, but he didn’t. 

He was so stone-faced it was as though Mira didn’t exist and never had.

“Now, I’m asking you one more time: How did you get in here?” barked Uncle Ben. 

“Answer me, boy, before I throw you out on your ear!”

“Um, I got in through the side door. I recognized the quote.”

“Huh,” Uncle Ben grunted suspiciously. 

“Not many boys your age read Shakespeare.”

“The Tempest is my favorite Shakespeare play.” 

Clay didn’t mention that it was the only one he knew.

“I see,” said Uncle Ben. 

“It was the master’s favorite, too.”

“The master?”

“Mr. Price. I believe he related to the story.”

“Because it’s about a man on an island… with his books… and his daughter?” asked Clay, putting it together for the first time. 

“Price was with his niece, but I guess other than that…”

Uncle Ben unclasped a key ring from his pants and motioned for Clay to follow him out of the room.

“Well, you got in, you saw it, now go,” he said as he limped toward the library’s front doors.

They were locked from the inside with a heavy iron chain. 

“That’s what you came for, right? Bragging rights?” 

He started unlocking the padlock on the door. 

“Or were you planning on taking something? I warn you, you won’t get far on this island.”

“I swear, I wasn’t going to take anything. I just wanted to look,” said Clay.

“So you say.” 

The padlock now hanging loose, Uncle Ben started to open the door.

“Hey, is there any chance—could you show me a book?” Clay asked, stalling.

“I mean, since I’m inside anyway? The library looks awesome.”

He knew he should leave, but he had noticed again the open drawer in the card catalog. 

He couldn’t get over the feeling that somebody had left that card sticking out as a message for him.

“I was kinda hoping to see Mr. Price’s memoir,” he said. 

“He sounds like a real interesting guy.”

“Name one reason I should let you.” Uncle Ben removed his goggles and stared hard at Clay. 

His eyes were gray-blue and bloodshot.

“Um, because I have this?” said Clay impulsively. 

He pulled his wallet out of his pocket and handed his Price Public Library card to Uncle Ben.

“Well, well…” 

Now Uncle Ben looked like he was the one seeing a ghost.

“Where did this come from?”

“Uh, somebody at the camp gave it to me,” said Clay.

Uncle Ben appeared to debate something with himself.

“All right,” he said abruptly.

As Clay watched, Uncle Ben pocketed the library card. 

Clay knew better than to ask for it back.

“But remember, this visit never happened. 

If even one camper knocks on my door saying he heard you were here, I’m coming for you—”

“Don’t worry, I can keep my mouth shut,” said Clay.

“Good. I’ll show you that book you asked about, but first I will show you the library,” said the old man. 

“The library is Mr. Price’s real memoir.”

The tour was surprisingly formal.

Apparently, Uncle Ben had decided that if he was going to show Clay the library, he was going to do it right.

“The master was very particular about how his books were handled,” he began. 

“You have to be very careful with the spines.”

To demonstrate how to treat a rare book properly, Uncle Ben opened a book on one of the velvet V-shaped “cradles” that were found at convenient spots throughout the library.

“Go ahead—flip through the pages,” he said. 

“A bit of finger grease is good, the master always said. 

Helps preserve the paper.

”The book Uncle Ben had chosen had a very ordinary-looking brown leather cover. The interior, however, was extraordinary, at least to Clay’s eyes. Paging through, Clay saw brooding black-and-white drawings of angels and monsters, and brilliant full-color illustrations of golden suns and silver moons. But what struck him most was the lettering. In some cases, single letters took up entire pages and were decorated with intricate three-dimensional designs, all hand-drawn—graffiti art from hundreds of years ago.

“What is this book?” he asked.

“Oh, just one of our illuminated manuscripts,” said Uncle Ben, the ghost of a smile on his lips. 

“Would you like to see some others?”

“Heck, yeah,” said Clay, who was suddenly much more interested in old books than he ever imagined he’d be.*

Under Uncle Ben’s guidance, Clay inspected enormous maps of long-gone countries, and manuscripts by long-forgotten authors. 

He unfurled ancient parchment scrolls, some as simply designed as a rolling pin, others with handles as ornate as the hilt of a royal sword.

Besides the illuminated manuscripts Uncle Ben had promised, Clay got to see an actual Gutenberg Bible and an early Shakespeare folio, as well as first editions of Robinson Crusoe, Treasure Island, and The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.

“Have you noticed anything about the way the library is laid out?” asked Uncle Ben.

“Uh, the books get newer as you walk up, and older as you go down?” Clay guessed.

“Yes, that is exactly how the master envisioned it,” said Uncle Ben, pleased. 

“‘To walk the length of the balcony will be to see the history of books unfold’—those were his very words.”

He pointed around the library. 

“Down there you see the scroll of the ancient world being replaced by the codex—that is, by the bound book of today. There you see how calfskin was replaced by paper from trees. And over there are the incunabula—the first books printed after the invention of movable type.”

“Am I really the first one to see all this stuff in years and years?” said Clay, who was still trying to get Uncle Ben to admit Mira’s existence.

“It’s too bad. You’re an awesome librarian.”

“Oh, I’m no librarian!” Uncle Ben shook his head as if the idea were totally outlandish. 

“I have no training, no formal education.… Everything I know, the master taught me. He even taught me to read, if you can believe it. I was just a wild island boy until I met him.… Oh no, I’m just the custodian here. A caretaker, nothing more.”

He sighed, surveying his domain. 

“It’s a losing battle, though. Guess what is the single most dangerous place to keep a book, historically? A library.”

“You’re joking, right?”

The custodian shook his head. 

“Just think of Alexandria… Pompeii.… Every great library burns down eventually.”

“Isn’t this building fireproof?” said Clay, thinking of the mysterious lava-free ring around the exterior of the library.

“Oh, I doubt we’ll be so lucky next time,” said Uncle Ben mournfully.

“Of course, the most valuable books are housed in a special vault that the master built.” 

He nodded to the base of the banyan tree at the bottom of the library.

“What could be more valuable than a Shakespeare, what do you call it, folio?” asked Clay.

“I don’t know for sure—the access code died with Mr. Price—but some say there are grimoires in there.”

“Grimoires?”

“Magic books.”

“You mean books about magic or books that are magic?” asked Clay.

“Maybe both.” 

The custodian’s eyes twinkled—as much as bulging bloodshot eyes can twinkle.*

The tour ended in Randolph Price’s office. 

It was small, considering the size of the library, not to mention his vast wealth. 

But it was lavish enough, with antique chairs upholstered in red velvet and gold-framed paintings of men and women with enormous ruffled collars.

“The master barely left this office after his niece died,” said Uncle Ben, his hand on an old library globe that showed the world as it was two hundred years ago. 

Clay looked at the coffee cup and cigar butts on the desk. 

“And now you work in here?”

“What? Never!” said Uncle Ben, horrified. 

“Those are the master’s things.”

“You mean they’ve been here since he died?”

“Of course,” said Uncle Ben stiffly. 

“I wouldn’t dare touch them.”

Clay nodded, trying not to show how creepy he thought this was.

“Is there a picture of his niece around?” Clay asked. He figured if they kept talking about her, eventually Uncle Ben would have to get around to the subject of his own niece. Uncle Ben shook his head. 

“The master couldn’t bear to be reminded of Mira after she died.”

“Wait, who?” Clay asked, confused. 

“You mean Mira was the name of Price’s niece?”

Uncle Ben’s eyes narrowed. 

“I thought you knew about her.”

“Yeah, I did. I just—”

Clay’s mind raced. 

What did it mean? 

If Mira was the name of Price’s niece, what was the library girl’s name? 

Also Mira? 

That seemed unlikely, to say the least.

“What did Mira look like?” he managed to ask.

“I never met her. They say she was very beautiful, with long red hair.”

“Red hair?”

“Yes, and ivory skin, the master said.”

The custodian was describing the girl in the library! 

Could the ghost girl actually be a ghost? 

Clay found himself wondering.

Or was he going crazy, like everyone else who’d seen her?

“Is something the matter?”

“Uh, no. I just… hurt my head today.” 

In fact, his head was starting to throb again.

“That’s what happens when you break into buildings.… The only personal item the master kept after the fire was his journal.” 

Uncle Ben pointed to a glass box on the desk. 

THE MEMOIRS OF RANDOLPH PRICE, read the brass plaque. 

“That’s what you wanted to see, isn’t it?”

Clay glanced at the journal inside. 

Why did it look so familiar?

With a start, he realized it looked exactly like the journal Mr. Bailey had given him, the journal that had gotten Clay into so much trouble. 

Price’s journal had a rust-red cover with a triangular mirror inset in the leather—just like Clay’s had. 

It even had the same ink-splat stain! 

Or was this just another sign that his mind was playing tricks on him?

“Can—can I take it out?” Clay stammered.

“Sorry, it’s private.”

“Please. I’d really like to see it.”

The custodian was adamant. 

“The master didn’t want anyone coming into this library. Imagine how he felt about his journal. I’ve never even looked at it myself.”

“You don’t understand. I think it’s mine.”

“The journal?”Clay nodded. 

“I know it sounds crazy—”

“Are you pulling my leg? That journal has been in that case for fifty years.”

“But it has an ink stain, just like mine—”

“So? There are ink stains everywhere.” 

The custodian pointed to an ink stain on his shirtsleeve as proof.

“Please—”

“No! I shouldn’t have let you stay in the first place. The master would never have approved,” said Uncle Ben, agitated. 

The loquacious librarian was gone; the churlish custodian had returned. 

“Now get out before I report you to the director of your camp!

”He practically pushed Clay out of the office.

On the way out, his head throbbing with pain, Clay looked up at the highest tower window. 

There she was again. 

The red-haired girl in the polka-dot dress who might or might not be named Mira. 

She raised her hand, parting her fingers slightly, then receded into the darkness of the library.

CHAPTER NINETEEN

THE JOURNAL

Clay’s mind was a jumble of thoughts as he made his way back to camp through the vog.

Among the things bothering him: the way Mira had parted her fingers in the window as he was leaving. 

He could have sworn she was giving him the Star Trek Vulcan hand salute. 

But if she was, why had she pretended never to have heard of Star Trek? 

Was there a normal, modern girl hidden inside her, waiting to get out?

And then there was the uncle, claiming not to know who she was, then describing her exactly. 

None of it added up.

An odd idea occurred to Clay: The girl and her uncle—if he really was her uncle—could it be that they were deliberately conspiring to make him think she was the ghost of Price’s niece?

Yes, Clay was suddenly sure of it. 

That was why Uncle Ben pretended she wasn’t there; he was trying to make Clay think Mira was visible only to Clay. 

And that was why she used those old-fashioned expressions and talked about that old actress Clay had never heard of; the girl herself was acting. 

She was pretending to be a girl from seventy years ago!

But why would they want him to think she was a ghost? 

Maybe they thought a ghost would scare away the camp kids. 

That was the only explanation Clay could think of. 

But it was hardly a satisfying one—Clay didn’t know what to expect when he got back to camp. 

It was more than three hours since he’d left, and it was likely that everyone would be on red alert, searching for him, the errant camper with the head injury. 

Then again, maybe Nurse Cora had never signaled that he’d gone.

She seemed like somebody who heard only what she wanted to hear and saw only what she wanted to see.

The camp was quiet, in any event. 

The vog was so thick that Clay could see no more than ten feet ahead. 

He had never been so grateful for the cover it provided.

As he reached Big Yurt, Clay glanced back in the direction he’d come from—and was astonished to see the director’s teepee hovering about two feet in the air. 

At least, that’s what he thought he saw. 

He blinked and the teepee was sitting on the ground. 

He blinked again and it was gone, lost in the vog.

He rubbed his aching head. 

Whether it was an effect of the injury or of meeting Mira, something was making him imagine things that weren’t there. 

What he needed was to lie down and stop thinking so much.

Thankfully, his cabin was empty.

By the time he climbed into his bunk, Clay was so tired—and his head was in so much pain—that he almost didn’t see it waiting for him.

The red journal on his white pillow.

His first reaction was panic and confusion. 

He looked around wildly to make sure nobody was watching, then he thrust the journal under his pillow as if it were evidence of a crime.

Mira must have absconded with it when her uncle wasn’t looking, he concluded when he started thinking rationally. 

Somehow she’d managed to run it down to camp ahead of Clay. 

Perhaps she knew a shortcut.

Unless it was someone else who had stolen it for him? 

Maybe that same secret benefactor who’d left the library card in his wallet?

He was just pulling out the journal for a second, calmer look, when somebody entered the cabin.

“Clay, there you are!” 

It was Buzz, his expression all concern. 

“How’s your head?”

“Uh, it’s okay. I couldn’t rest in the infirmary,” said Clay, slipping the journal back under his pillow. 

“Too noisy.”

Buzz smiled. 

“I know what you mean. That bird always seems to have something really urgent to say.”

“Sorry, guess I should have told somebody I was leaving.”

“Well, I’ve got bad news for you,” said Buzz, causing Clay’s heart to skip a beat. 

Had Buzz already heard about the stolen journal?

“Your rest is over. Everybody’s about to come in for Circle.”

“Oh, right. What’s the topic for today?” Clay asked, relieved.

“Honesty. With ourselves and with others,” said Buzz, staring Clay down. 

Clay gulped, but Buzz didn’t say anything further until Circle started.

Clay didn’t dare look at the journal again until close to midnight, when he was sure his counselor and his cabinmates were all asleep.

Tense with excitement, Clay turned on his flashlight and shined it on the journal’s cover. 

The ink-splat was just as he remembered: star-shaped but smeared. 

If you squinted, it looked almost like a shooting star. 

How had his journal landed under glass in a library on an island thousands of miles away from where he lived?

In a week full of mysteries, this was perhaps the biggest mystery Clay had confronted yet.

No. 

As soon as Clay opened the journal, where he expected to see the words MAGIC SUCKS!, he instead saw a date and the title

The Memoirs of Randolph Price

followed by pages of handwriting—neat, careful handwriting—that looked nothing like Clay’s own.

There was no mystery after all; the journal wasn’t his. 

It was just a coincidence that the journal covers looked so similar. 

Clay was disappointed and relieved at the same time.

He sighed and started reading. 

Maybe he would learn more about the original Mira, or more about the library the pilot had warned him about weeks ago.

Soon, Clay was sitting up in bed, mouth agape.

MATH STINKS! the memoir began: I was a mischievous miscreant of twelve when my math teacher caught me writing those words on his wall. 

For me, it was the last straw. 

In short order, I was sent away to a dreaded reform school in a faraway city.

What misery! 

The Ian G. Grantland School for the Moral Improvement of Wayward Boys was a grim, gray place with scary teachers and even scarier students. 

My classmates included an underage bookie, an anarchist, and a sleepwalker who got into trouble every night trying to knock down his neighbors’ doors. 

And those were just the boys in my room!

A bookie, an anarchist, and a sleepwalker? 

Clay thought immediately of Kwan, Pablo, and Jonah. 

The parallel with his cabinmates couldn’t have been more obvious. 

Never mind that MATH STINKS! sounded so much like MAGIC SUCKS!…

He continued to read with increasing disbelief.

I spent most of my time hiding in the school library, where I read morning ’til night. 

I liked adventure stories best, stories like TREASURE ISLAND and ROBINSON CRUSOE, that always seemed to wind up with their hero stranded on a desert island.

The librarian was an old bald man with bulging eyeballs and a nasty temper, but he took a liking to me for some reason. 

One day, he handed me a tattered copy of a play by William Shakespeare, THE TEMPEST.

“Think of it as another desert island adventure,” he said.

It took me a few attempts before I could make sense of Shakespeare’s flowery language. 

His THEEs and THOUs and WHATNOTs. 

But I found that if I read it aloud, I understood it better.

The other kids had a lot of fun at my expense—they all called me Shakespeare—but I kept at it until I almost had the play memorized. 

There was something about the story that struck a chord. 

I guess I wanted to be like Prospero the magician, to control my enemies like puppets.

Clay held his pounding head in his hands, trying to organize his wildly careening thoughts.

The librarian—he sounded just like Uncle Ben. 

And here was The Tempest again, too?

Clay’s reflections were interrupted by murmuring from the bunk below. 

He looked over the edge of his bunk to see Jonah, apparently still asleep, sitting up in bed, talking to himself.

“My spirits… in a dream… bound up…” 

Clay listened, marveling. 

He could only make out some of the words, but he was pretty sure he recognized them. 

They weren’t taken directly from Price’s journal, but they might as well have been. 

Clay reached down and gave Jonah a shake. 

“That was a line from The Tempest,” 

Clay whispered. 

“Did you know I was reading about The Tempest right now? Is that why—?”

His eyes still closed, Jonah mumbled something to the effect of, “Huh? What the heck are you talking about?” 

Then he fell back, snoring, onto his pillow.

Even more unsettled, Clay went back to reading: It was when I finally returned THE TEMPEST to the library that I found the red leather book that had been hidden behind it. 

The very book that you, Dear Reader, are holding now.

Inside, the book was blank—strange, seeing as it was so old. 

It would be my journal, I decided.

But that night, when I opened it again, I had a surprise. 

The book was full of writing! 

Had some secret chemical acted on the ink? 

Was the writing revealed by the light of the moon? 

I couldn’t figure it out.

On the title page it said, THE BOOK OF PROSPERO HEREIN LIES THE LOST KNOWLEDGE OF THE MAGES OF THE PAST.

At first, I couldn’t make heads or tails of what was written inside. 

It seemed to be a scientific textbook, or a book of recipes, or a book of poems, I couldn’t tell which.

But I was a stubborn boy, and I liked a challenge. 

After studying the book for several sleepless nights, I determined that the science wasn’t science but alchemy, the science of the occult. 

Likewise, the recipes weren’t recipes so much as potions. 

And the poems weren’t poems so much as spells.

It was, in sum, a book of magic, a grimoire, like Prospero’s book in THE TEMPEST.

Who had written it? 

As far as I could tell, a magician from the eighteenth or nineteenth century. 

He called himself Prospero to disguise his identity.

I had no way of knowing it then, but his book would bring me great wealth. 

And great grief—Clay looked up in frustration.

The memoir ended there, when it had seemingly only just begun. 

As if something had prevented the author from writing more.

Or, Clay thought bitterly, as if he had decided to torture his “Dear Reader.”

That Dear Reader being Clay.

He had no idea what to think. 

On one level, Price’s memoir was about Price. 

On another level, it was about Clay.

As if it had been written yesterday.

But why would someone fake a journal to make it resemble Clay’s life?

Unless the journal was genuine and it was Clay’s life that was being made to resemble the journal? 

That idea was even more difficult to fathom.

And then there was Jonah reciting Shakespeare in his sleep.

How did he fit in?

It was the kind of puzzle that his brother would have loved.

Clay tried to think of what Max-Ernest would do. 

What was that Sherlock Holmes quote he always talked about? 

Something like, When you have eliminated the possible, the impossible must be true.*

Clay scrutinized the handwriting in the journal, trying to ascertain whether it was new or old. 

The writing looked authentic, but he knew there were people who could fake that sort of thing.

Like Price, Clay was stubborn and liked a challenge. 

And yet he had to admit there was no way he was going to figure this one out tonight. 

It had been a long day, and his head hurt. 

He stowed the journal under his pillow, closed his eyes, and tried—tried—to sleep.

CHAPTER TWENTY

TWICE STOLEN

Clay woke very early, with that anxious feeling you have when you don’t remember ever falling asleep. 

Sitting up in his bunk, he gazed at the clouds of vog that were drifting by his cabin.

Sleep had done nothing to illuminate the mystery of Price’s memoir.

Who had left it on his pillow? he wondered again. 

Was this unknown person trying to help him, or was he trying to make Clay feel even crazier?

Clay leaned over his bunk.

“Jonah!” he whispered. 

“Tell me the truth—were you really sleeping last night?”

“Huh? What? I’m still sleeping now.”

“What about the line from The Tempest?”

“The line from what?” asked Jonah, sitting up.

“You were reciting Shakespeare in your sleep. Or your pretend sleep.”

Jonah scratched his head.

“Shakespeare? I think you have me confused with Caliban.” 

He pointed at the tater-bot, which was sitting motionless next to Pablo’s bed. 

No longer made up as a ghost girl, the tater-bot had a new potato head and a painted-on mustache that looked suspiciously like Buzz’s.

“Oh, come on. I read Price’s journal,” said Clay. 

“About the kids at the reform school. And the boys that just happen to be exactly like you guys. Including the sleepwalker. It’s like they might as well have just named him Jonah.”

“Dude, I have no idea what you’re talking about,” said Jonah grumpily. 

“Or why you had to wake me up.”

“I’m telling you, it’s all in the journal!”

“What journal? Show me—”

Clay hesitated for a moment, then thought, why not? 

There was nothing to lose. 

Maybe the sight of the journal would get Jonah to fess up and tell him what the heck was happening. 

On the other hand, maybe Jonah was telling the truth, and he was an unwitting participant in whatever it was that was taking place. 

In that case, the journal was about to open Jonah’s eyes.

“Okay, I’ll show you,” said Clay.

But when he reached under his pillow for the journal, he couldn’t find anything; the journal was gone!

“What are you guys going on about?” asked their counselor, climbing out of his bunk. 

“What time is it?”

“I dunno… early,” said Clay, frantically feeling around his sleeping bag.

One thing was certain: He had to find the journal and return it to the library as soon as possible. 

The last thing he needed was for Uncle Ben to come roaring through camp, accusing him of robbery.

When Clay realized the journal had been stolen out from under him, a certain person came instantly to mind—a certain thief-type person—but he didn’t see her until well after breakfast.

Clay was in the barnyard, feeding the llamas, when Leira walked by in her newsboy cap and suspenders. 

He dropped a bale of hay to the ground, tossed a carrot top to Como, and ran up to the edge of the split-wood rail that kept the llamas from running away—most of the time.

“Yo, Leira!” he called out. 

“Come here a sec!”

She ran up. 

“Well, did you get in? Did you see the ghost girl?” she whispered excitedly.

He nodded.

Her eyes widened. 

“You did?”

“That’s not what I wanted to talk to you about, though,” he said in a low voice.

“Wait. But how—”

“Never mind right now,” said Clay. 

“Do you have it?”

“Do I have what?”

“The journal. Where is it?”

“What journal?” she asked.

“The red leather journal that was under my pillow. Don’t tell me you don’t know what I’m talking about.” 

Clay stared at her.

“Why would I have your journal?”

“I don’t know. Why do you steal my wallet all the time? Why did you steal my backpack and my llama?” Clay stared at her some more.

Leira squirmed under his gaze. 

“That’s different.”

“It is?” 

Clay’s big eyes bored into her. 

His staring powers were in full effect.

“Yes. Totally,” said Leira. 

“And stop staring at me!”

“Well, tell me this: What do you know about what was written in the journal?”

“Why would I know anything about it?”

“I don’t know. Everybody knows everything at this camp.”

“Boy, are you paranoid,” Leira scoffed.

“You would be, too, if you were me!”

As quickly as he could, Clay told her about the library and about finding the journal on his pillow.

“Okay, I agree, that sounds… bizarre,” said Leira.

“But what are you saying? You really think somebody forged an old journal about you, then locked it in a forbidden library?”

“Uh-huh.”

“And then somebody stole the journal from the library to give to you?”

“Uh-huh.”

“And then after all that, somebody else stole it from your bed?”

“Uh-huh. Unless it was the same person, which seems…”

“Doubtful? Yeah, it does,” said Leira. 

“Why would anybody do any of this?”

“I don’t know,” Clay admitted. 

“To mess with me?”

“To mess with you, right,” said Leira, unconvinced. 

“You know what I think?”

“What? That I’m crazy?” said Clay.

Leira grinned. 

“That it takes a thief to catch a thief.”

“Meaning?”

“That you need my help, duh.”

Leira took off her cap and bowed.

“Leira, master thief, at your service.”

Clay did a double take. 

“Whoa, wait a second. Have you always had red hair?”

“No, I dyed it today,” she said, rolling her eyes. 

“Yes, I’ve always had red hair.”

How could he not have noticed that she had hair the exact same color as Mira’s? 

Clay thought back and realized he’d never seen Leira without a hat.

It wasn’t just the hair, though. 

Despite their polar-opposite styles, he saw for the first time that Leira and Mira looked remarkably similar.

“Has anybody ever told you that you look like her?” he asked.

“Who?”

“The ghost girl.”

“Really?” Leira laughed. 

“Maybe I am her and I just don’t know it.”

Clay blanched. 

“That’s just what she said!”

“Oh, come on, I was just joking,” said Leira. 

“This whole thing has really freaked you out, huh?”

She turned to the llama, who’d stepped up to them, obviously wanting another carrot top. 

“You better talk some sense into this guy, Como,” she said.

“He’s going loco.”

While Clay stood there, trying to sort out his thoughts, the llama nipped the remaining carrot top from his hand.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

FIRE CABIN

Over the next few days, Clay kept expecting Uncle Ben to show up at any moment, demanding Clay return the journal, but he never did. 

Either the custodian hadn’t noticed the theft or, more likely, he was biding his time, waiting for the right moment to strike.

Meanwhile, Leira was excited to try solving a crime for once rather than perpetrating one. 

She insisted on meeting daily with Clay to discuss the Case of the Missing Journal, as she called it.

There were all kinds of questions to consider. 

Who wrote the journal? 

Who would want Clay to read it, and who wouldn’t? 

But of course the most urgent was, who took the journal from Clay’s bunk?

At Leira’s suggestion, they wrote lists of everyone at camp, starting with the boys in Clay’s cabin, and weighed each person’s potential as a suspect. 

For example,

PABLO
PRO—HAS GUTS, HAD OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE JOURNAL
CON—NO MOTIVE

or,

KWAN
PRO—MISCHIEF-MAKER, HAD OPPORTUNITY
CON—TOO LOUD? NOT STEALTHY?

The only person they approached directly was Jonah. 

They figured Clay had already spoken to him about the journal, so there was little to lose, but they swore him to secrecy anyway. 

Jonah claimed innocence; he knew nothing about the journal, he said, nor did he have any idea who’d taken it.

But Clay was never wholly convinced. 

Not that he suspected that Jonah had done anything truly terrible. 

It was just that there was something fishy about Jonah’s nocturnal Shakespearean rambling, not to mention the night when he led Clay outside to see the bathroom shack on fire.

Although they considered all possibilities, Clay and Leira agreed that by far the most likely culprit was Flint. 

He had already shown a willingness to torture Clay, as well as a fierce interest in the ghost girl, Mira. 

If anybody had the journal squirreled away, he did. 

Naturally, there was no question of asking him; they would just have to steal it back.

They took turns staking out Flint’s trailer cabin, Fire Truck, watching for a safe time to enter. 

Each of them had to feign running for the bathroom more than once. 

Frustratingly, their camp schedules didn’t allow for extended stakeout periods, and days passed without there being a good opportunity for a break-in.

Late one afternoon, Leira entered Clay’s cabin just as Circle was ending.

“You have to come with me—now!” she whispered, and dragged Clay outside without explanation.

Finally, Flint’s cabin was empty.

“Okay, you go in,” said Clay when they reached the door. 

“I’ll knock twice if somebody’s coming.”

“No, you go in; I’ll stand guard,” said Leira.

“But you’re the expert thief!” Clay protested.

“Yeah, but you’re the boy, and it’s a boys’ cabin!”

“Older boys’ cabin,” said Clay. 

“And it’s a trailer.”

“Same difference,” said Leira. 

“Besides, if I get caught taking anything, I’m dead. My parents will kill me.”

“Doesn’t stop you from taking my wallet every five minutes,” Clay pointed out.

“Only because I know you won’t tell. Please—”

“Fine, I’ll do it,” said Clay, not wanting to lose any more precious time.

“Make it fast,” said Leira. 

“Dinner starts in five minutes, and if we’re not there, somebody will definitely notice.” 

On the inside, Flint’s cabin, Fire Truck, was a mess. 

Clay figured this was because the older boys’ counselor, Eli, who also happened to be the camp director—he of the mysterious moving teepee—was never around to make them clean it up.

Clay thought he could tell which bed was Flint’s. 

It was the choicest one, the one next to the window, apart from the others. 

Sticking out from underneath was a shiny red metal trunk covered with stickers. 

It looked like something that might have once belonged on a real fire truck, not just a fire-truck-red trailer.

Clay felt under Flint’s pillow, but the journal wasn’t there. 

He lifted up the mattress, but the journal wasn’t under the mattress, either.

He had no choice but to look in the trunk. 

If he didn’t find the missing journal, at least he might clear up the mystery of how Flint did his pyro-maniacal magic tricks.

The trunk was heavy and screeched loudly when he pulled it out.

“What was that?” Leira asked from outside.

“Nothing.”

“Well, don’t do it again. I could hear you all the way out here!”

The trunk wasn’t locked—maybe because it contained no magic supplies, only dirty laundry. 

Feeling a little guilty—and more than a little disgusted—Clay rifled through the trunk. 

At the bottom, he thought he felt what he was looking for. 

But what he pulled out was not a red leather journal; it was a bright blue paperback. 

The one Clay saw Flint reading on top of Egg Rock.

Clay could see the title now. 

Of all things, Flint was reading The Tempest!

Why did everything keep coming back to that play? 

It was like The Tempest was the answer to some cosmic riddle, but he didn’t know what that cosmic riddle was.

Clay flipped through the paperback. 

It looked like Flint had read it more than once. 

Clay noticed that he had written Mira! next to a line belonging to Miranda, the magician’s daughter.

“Leira? What are you doing here?”

It was Flint. 

Right outside the door. 

Clay replaced the book as quickly as he could.

“Nothing…” said Leira. 

“I just, uh, had a question for you.”

“Yeah, what? I’m in a hurry,” said Flint.

Clay managed to close the trunk without making any noise, but he was terrified to slide it back under Flint’s bed; it would almost certainly screech again. 

Should he run or hide, he wondered.

“Um, is dinner tonight outside or inside?” asked Leira.

“Outside. You waited just to ask me that?”

“Uh—uh…” Leira stammered. 

“I just thought you’d know.”

“That’s the lamest excuse for talking to somebody I’ve ever heard.” 

Flint laughed, as cocky and rude as ever.

“As if I’d ever want to talk to you!” Leira spit out. 

Clay could imagine how furious she must have looked. 

He was almost amused.

“Don’t worry. You’ll get over it,” said Flint. 

“When little girls have crushes on older boys, it doesn’t mean anything.”

Yeah, kinda like you having a crush on a ghost, Clay thought.

“You’re disgusting!” said Leira.

“Whatever you say,” said Flint. 

“Now can you maybe let me in?”

“Wait. I have another question,” said Leira, stalling. 

“Um, what time is dinner?”

Just then, somebody rang the gong.

And rang it again. 

And again. 

Three times.

“Sounds like dinner is now,” said Flint. 

“Lates.”

Clay took advantage of the ringing gong to push Flint’s trunk into place. 

Then he scrambled up onto Flint’s bed and shimmied out the open window, more certain than ever that Flint was guilty—but of what, Clay didn’t know.

Contrary to Flint’s assertion, dinner that night was not outside; it was inside Big Yurt.

As everyone ate vegan cashew nut cheese and sun-dried potato chips, Jonah pulled something out from under the table—his last package of red licorice—and started passing ropes around the table.

“What, he doesn’t get one?” asked Pablo. 

He pointed to the tater-bot, which was propped up at the table next to him and was now sporting a Mohawk to match Pablo’s.

“He can eat potato chips,” said Jonah.

“He’s made from a potato!” Pablo protested. 

“You want him to be a cannibal?”

Kwan laughed. 

“Well, his name’s Caliban, isn’t it?”

“So what’s the deal with The Tempest, anyway?” asked Clay, still thinking about the paperback he discovered in Flint’s trunk.

“You mean, why did I name him Caliban?

Because he’s my little cannibal monster,” said Pablo. 

“Aren’t you, Cali-boy?”

He gave the robot a poke, and it shook its arms in an arguably monstrous fashion.

“No, I get that,” said Clay. 

“I mean why is everybody all about The Tempest here? I saw Flint reading it and also—” 

He was about to mention the references to The Tempest in Price’s journal but stopped himself. 

“And also the plane to get here, Skipper’s plane, it was called The Tempest.”

Pablo shrugged.

“Means ‘storm,’ doesn’t it? 

Seems like a normal name for a seaplane to me. 

And Flint—the play’s about magic, and Flint’s into magic, right?”

“Clay hates Flint,” Jonah volunteered. 

“Hates magic, too.”

“We know—magic sucks!” said Kwan, grinning. 

“So, how much do you really hate magic, Clay? Like, if I did a magic trick, right now, what would you do? ’Cause I’ve got some mad magic skills.”

“Do what you want,” said Clay. 

“It’s a free country.”

“That’s what you think,” scoffed Pablo.

“Okay, we’ve got licorice rope, right? So I’m going to do a rope trick,” said Kwan.

With a wolfish grin, he grabbed the rope of licorice out of Clay’s hand and shoved it into his mouth.

“Now, that’s real magic, folks,” he said, chewing.

His teeth were so red, he could have been a vampire.

Clay forced a smile. 

“Nice.” Kwan stopped. 

“You can do a real rope trick?” Clay shrugged. 

“My brother taught me a few, but I probably forgot.… Rope tricks are pretty cheese-wiz-y, anyway.”

“Prove it,” said Kwan, holding up a rope of licorice for Clay.

Clay shook his head. 

“No way.”

“C’mon, bro, you know we’re not going to let you out of it now,” said Pablo.

“Yeah, give us magic or we give you the worst, most epic wedgie in summer camp history,” said Kwan.

“Give the guy a break,” said Jonah. 

“He doesn’t like magic. So what.”

“It’s okay, I’ll do the trick,” said Clay, feeling foolish for giving in so easily. 

But why not? 

What was the big deal, really? 

He couldn’t stay mad at magic forever.

“All right, that’s more like it,” said Kwan, handing Clay the licorice. 

“Amaze us, Fellow Worm.”

Standing up, Clay dangled the licorice rope in the air, as his brother had taught him years before.

“Okay, let’s see.… Gentlemen, I have in my hand an ordinary rope,” he said haltingly. 

“Just, uh, forget the fact that it’s red and rubbery and made of sugar.”

As the Worms watched, Clay tied the two ends of the licorice into a square knot.

“I will now cut the rope with my special magic scissors—”

Holding the licorice with two hands, he bit the licorice in half with his teeth. 

The others laughed.

“As you see, there are now two pieces of rope. But as a master magician, I have the power to heal all,” he said, just the way his brother used to.

“Now, who has a bad word for me? I mean, a magic word!” he corrected himself, blushing.

“Oh, we have lots of bad words,” said Pablo. 

“What about—”

(Please. Did you really think I was going to repeat Pablo’s word here? You know better than that.)

“I was thinking of abracadabra,” said Clay. 

“But sure, any word works if you say it right, right?”

Clay panicked, thinking he’d forgotten how to do the trick. 

But when he pulled on the square knot, it loosened and the licorice rope dropped from his hand—in a single unbroken piece.*

“And there you have it, gentlemen, the licorice is as good as new.”

Clay bowed his head as his dining companions—as well as a few people from neighboring tables—clapped and whistled enthusiastically.

“Very nice!” 

“Bravo!”

“Way to go!”

Even Caliban jumped up and down, clapping.

Clay flushed, remembering the way he’d felt as a child of five when he mastered the trick for the first time. 

His brother took the rope out of his hand afterward, checking and double-checking to see that Clay had really done it correctly. 

“How ’bout that?” 

Max-Ernest had said, the way he did when he was happy. 

And Clay had grinned, squinting his eyes, the way he did when he was happy.

Seven years later, Clay was grinning and squinting in the same way when he saw Kwan’s face light up with astonishment.

“Where did that guy come from?” asked Kwan, his eyes looking at a spot behind Clay’s back. 

“Nobody ever comes here.”

“Nobody even lives here,” agreed Jonah. 

“I mean except us.”

“I dunno,” said Pablo. 

“There are caves all over this island, right? Who knows who lives in them.”

“Yeah, like, maybe this guy hasn’t spoken to anybody in thirty years,” said Kwan.

“Right, and he’s like a caveman or Tarzan or something,” said Jonah. 

“Gotta admit, he kinda looks like it.”

Clay didn’t want to turn around. 

He had a suspicion he knew who it was. 

“Is he a bald older guy?”

Jonah nodded. 

“Why, you know him?”

“Sorta bulging eyes? Muscles?” 

Clay persisted.“

Just tell us who he is,” said Kwan.

“He’s the custodian at the library—you know, Price’s library,” said Clay, figuring it was only a matter of seconds before they heard anyway. 

There could be only one reason Uncle Ben had shown up at camp.

“How do you know?” asked Pablo.

Clay didn’t say anything. 

He didn’t have to.

“No way—you got in!?” exclaimed Pablo. 

“The bees didn’t get you?”

Before Clay could answer, the newcomer thundered at the assembled campers. 

“Where’s the director? I demand to speak to the director of this camp!”

Clay finally turned and sneaked a peek. 

It was the custodian, all right. 

His goggles were off, but he still looked bug-eyed.

Buzz rushed up to him. 

“Sorry, sir, Eli’s not here. Can I help you with something?”

“One of your campers is a thief!” said the custodian, his voice still booming.

His heart thumping in his chest, Clay considered his options.

There were none. 

It was no use running. 

Where would he go?

He looked around.

Uncle Ben caught his eye.

“Him! There’s that little lying criminal!” 

He shook his fist at Clay.

Girding himself, Clay walked toward the custodian and Buzz.

Though he’d been waiting for this moment for a week, it was no less scary now that it was happening.

“This boy broke into my library and I—I gave him a tour, sucker that I am,” said Uncle Ben to Buzz, still loud enough for the whole camp to hear. 

“And how does this ungrateful delinquent return the favor? By taking the most irreplaceable book in the library—The Memoirs of Randolph Price!”

He lunged at Clay. 

Buzz had to hold him back.

“Clay, is this true? Did you take this book?”

“Uh. No. I mean, I don’t have it…” Clay stumbled.

“But you did break into the library? You admit that?”

Clay hesitated, then nodded.

“Yeah, but I don’t know where the journal is,” he said truthfully.

“That’s a bunch of bull!” said the custodian.

“You crossed the Wall of Trust,” said Buzz to Clay. 

“Which means you betrayed all of our trust, not just his.”

“Yeah, I guess I did,” said Clay.

“You guess?”

“No, I mean I did that, yes.”

“Well, it’s all over, then,” said Buzz evenly, looking into Clay’s eyes.

Clay swallowed. 

“What do you mean, it?”

“Camp, what else would I mean?” said Buzz, his face not giving anything away. 

“You broke the rules. You’re out.”

“Just like that?” 

Clay couldn’t quite believe it. 

Even though he had been warned repeatedly.

“Yep. Just like that. You’re going home, Clay.”

It was only the second time Buzz had called him Clay and not Worm since they’d met. 

The message was clear: He was no longer one of them.

“It’s what you wanted, isn’t it?” said Buzz. 

“Why else would you cross the Wall of Trust.”

“I don’t know,” said Clay bleakly.

It may have been what he’d wanted once, but now he was only conscious of a crushing sense of loss.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

THE NEXT MORNING

It only took a few minutes for Clay to throw all of his belongings into his backpack. 

Soon he would be home and it would be as if Earth Ranch had never happened. 

He was already worried about the ramifications.

He had been kicked out of school, then kicked out of camp. 

It was almost certain he wouldn’t be allowed to return to his school for seventh grade.

He extracted a last dirty T-shirt from behind his bunk and stuffed it into his backpack.

His cabinmates watched respectfully from their bunks. 

Now that they had learned about the library break-in, they looked on Clay with newfound esteem. 

“He crossed the Wall and came back to tell the tale.” 

Kwan shook his head. 

“Who knew the dude had it in him?”

“Let’s just hope he doesn’t go insane like those other three guys,” said Jonah, not letting on that he’d already known about Clay’s library visit. 

“That would suck.”

“What sucks is him getting kicked out,” said Pablo. 

“Cali and I were just beginning to like him. I mean kinda. Right, little dude?” 

The tater-bot nodded its potato head.

“Gee thanks,” said Clay. 

“That’s the sweetest thing I’ve ever heard.” 

His tone might have been sarcastic, but he meant what he said. 

Now that he was being sent home, he finally felt like he was making friends.

“Anytime,” said Pablo. 

“You know, you could always beg Buzz to let you stay. It worked for me.”

“But you didn’t actually cross the Wall,” Kwan pointed out. 

“You just got a lot of beestings.”

“Buzz said it was over,” said Clay, closing his backpack. 

“You know, like it’s all over, not just camp, but whatever else is going on here… or was going on.”

“What else is going on?” asked Kwan. 

“Besides the fact that we all secretly plotted to get you booted from camp, and now we’re feeling guilty about it.”

Clay forced a smile. 

“Right. That’s pretty much what I meant.”

“He thinks there’s a conspiracy,” volunteered Jonah. 

“It has to do with the journal that got stolen from the library.”

“Oh yeah? Tell us more,” said Kwan. 

“Pablo loves conspiracy theories. Have you heard him talk about the stuff they put in school lunches?”

Clay hesitated. 

“You guys really don’t know anything about the journal?” 

He still thought it was possible—barely—that one of them might be in on it.

Kwan and Pablo shook their heads. 

“Why would we?” said Kwan.

Clay stared at them for a second. 

Either they really didn’t know anything, or they were really good actors.

“Forget it,” he said. 

“I’m just going crazy.”

What was the point? 

There were essentially two possibilities: Either he truly was going crazy, or there was some elaborate game that somebody had been playing with him as a pawn. 

And if there had been a game, it was now over. 

The book was closed even if the story wasn’t finished.

“Hey, I think your ride is here,” said Jonah, pointing upward.

Cocking his head, Clay could hear the distinctive sound of propellers coming from high above. 

Skipper’s plane was circling the island.

It was time to go home.

Clay had assumed he would be hiking down to the black lava beach right away to meet the plane. 

But when Clay stopped by the corral to say good-bye to Como, Buzz spotted him and told him that Skipper would be making some deliveries to camp first. 

Clay wouldn’t be leaving until the afternoon.

Clay went back to his cabin to wait while the other Worms went to collect eggs in the chicken coop. 

He almost wanted to join them, even though it most likely meant getting pecked by a hen. 

Anything was better than sitting around, wondering how he had gone from being expelled from school to being expelled from camp.

After he had been waiting in the cabin for what seemed like hours but was probably more like twenty minutes, Leira entered. 

“Package for you.”

She handed him a cardboard box, not unlike the one Clay himself had delivered when he first arrived at Earth Ranch. 

Only this time, his name, not Jonah’s, was on the box.

“Funny timing, huh?” 

Leira said, seeing his expression. 

“Right before you leave.”

“It’s not just the timing,” said Clay. 

“It would be weird even if I was staying. My parents aren’t really the care package types.”

Leira shrugged. 

“Maybe they missed you. Stranger things have happened.… Well, are you going to open it or what?”

Clay shrugged. 

Without much enthusiasm, he ripped open the box with a pencil and pulled out a few crumpled pieces of newspaper.

Clay blinked, not believing his eyes. 

“What the—?”

“Is that what I think it is?” asked Leira.

Inside the box was an envelope—and a familiar red leather journal.

“I don’t think so. I mean, I don’t think it’s the missing journal; I think it’s my journal.”

“Huh? I’m confused.”

“Remember, there were two? This is the one from my school play, the one my teacher gave me. The one that got me into trouble in the first place.…”

Clay cracked open the journal—just to confirm that it was his, and not by some wild chance, Price’s. 

Sure enough, there they were on the first page, those two fateful words—MAGIC SUCKS!

Clay opened the envelope and pulled out a note.

“It’s not from my parents,” he said, fighting a small feeling of disappointment. 

“It’s from my teacher.”

He showed it to her.

Dear Clay,

Your friend Gideon has confessed. He says he was the one who wrote on my wall at school. A prank that got out of hand. I’m sorry I doubted you. You are welcome to return for seventh grade. Please accept the journal back with my apologies.

Warm regards,
E. Bailey

P.S. I hope you stick it out at Earth Ranch anyway. I think the camp may surprise you.

While Leira read the note, Clay looked at it for a second time. 

Was it possible that there was such a simple explanation for the writing on Mr. Bailey’s wall?

“Nice friends you have,” joked Leira. 

“If they aren’t stealing your wallet, they’re setting you up.”

“Actually, Gideon’s a pretty decent guy… usually,” said Clay, perplexed. 

“I don’t get it, him doing something like that.”

“You must have really pissed him off.”

“I can’t think of anything I did. I mean, he’s always pushing me to do a big graffiti piece, but it’s not like he gets all mad when I don’t.” 

He studied the journal in his hand as if it might hold the answer.

“Maybe he’s just jealous of you.”

Clay laughed. 

“Yeah, sure.”

“Why’s that so funny?”

“Well, like, why would anybody be jealous of me?”

“I don’t know. Maybe because you’re so cool.”

“I am?”

Clay couldn’t have been more surprised if she’d told him he was covered with green stripes.

Leira nodded. 

“Yeah, you have this thing. This, like, toughness or something. It can be a little intimidating, actually.”

“Huh. Really?” said Clay, blushing. 

“Thanks, I guess?”

“You’re welcome,” said Leira matter-of-factly. 

“By the way, you’re also cute.”

“Cute?!” Clay sputtered. 

“Now I know you’re lying.”

He remembered the Worms saying Leira had a crush on him.

Could it be true? 

The thought was alarming.

“No, I’m not. I mean, that’s not my opinion. That’s objective information.”

“I have the most messed-up hair in the universe. I’m short. I have crooked teeth. My clothes are always wrong.…”

“Trust me, you’re cute. Even Adriana thinks so. She said you were like a little wild animal she wanted to tame and make into her pet.”

“Ugh! And, ugh! I don’t want to be anybody’s pet.”

“I know,” agreed Leira. 

“You’re too cool for that. You see what I mean?”

“Not really,” said Clay. 

“I think I’m just going to pretend we never had this conversation.”

“Suit yourself. So, you gonna return the journal to the library or what?”

“Well, it came from home, so I wouldn’t really be returning it, strictly speaking.”

“Right. I forgot for a second.”

“But I guess Uncle Ben doesn’t have to know that, does he?” Clay ruminated. 

“He said he never opened the journal. Maybe he wouldn’t even notice the difference.…”

“See what a criminal you’ve turned into!” 

Leira laughed, then quickly turned sober.

“Anyway, I gotta go. It’s been, uh, nice knowing you and all that stuff. If I don’t see you ever again… well, bye.”

She gave Clay a quick embarrassed hug, and hurried out the door.

“Yeah, bye,” he said to her departing back.

Clay checked for his wallet. 

It was still there, which made him sad. 

He probably wouldn’t ever be able to look at his wallet again without thinking about Leira stealing it.

He would miss her.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

LOCKED OUT

Clay found Buzz standing by the fire pit under the dome, talking to the other Worms. 

Or rather, talking to the Worms, since Clay was no longer one of them. 

When Buzz saw Clay, he gave him the one-minute sign and kept lecturing as if he were teaching in an outdoor classroom.

One minute turned to ten as Buzz talked about lava and lava safety.

While Clay waited impatiently, Buzz told the Worms about how lava is formed, how it erupts, and how it solidifies. 

He also told them how to walk around it (when you could) and over it (when you had to).

“Walk over lava? No prob,” joked Kwan. 

“I played ‘hot lava’ all the time when I was little.”

“Me too,” said Jonah. 

“But back then the lava was cracks in the sidewalk. Here the lava is… lava.”

“Lava is never just lava,” said Buzz. 

“It’s molten rock, yes, but it’s also liquid fire. It’s the blood of our planet.”

“That’s deep, man,” said Pablo.

“I don’t think it’s the blood,” said Kwan. 

“I think it’s the pus. It’s like volcanoes are zits, and when you squeeze them, lava comes out.”

“Nice image,” said Jonah. 

“Thanks for putting it in my mind.”

That night at sundown, the entire camp would be taking a lava walk together, Buzz told them. 

“Well, not all of you,” he said with a glance in Clay’s direction, that felt to Clay like a slap.

“It’s an annual tradition—a rite of passage for the newer campers, and a way of honoring this place for the older campers,” said Buzz. 

“It’s also the kickoff for your volcano overnight, which, as you know, starts first thing the next morning. Again, for most of you.”

Clay gritted his teeth. 

Why did Buzz have to keep harping on the fact that he was no longer part of the group?

“So no lava safety test?” Pablo asked.

“Think of the lava walk as your safety test—an unconventional one.” 

Buzz smiled. 

“You know those hot lava games you played when you were kids? Those aren’t just games. They build your imagination, your agility, your leadership ability, your trust in your peers. The same is true for a lava walk now. You will have to be mindful at all times tonight; otherwise you’ll burn your feet or worse.… Now scoot, all of you—“

So what can I do for you, Clay?” he asked formally, after the others had left.

“I found the book—it fell down behind my bunk,” Clay said. 

Which for all he knew was true.

He held up the journal, but Buzz didn’t take it. 

“I know I messed up big-time, but is there any way—I mean, could you give me a second chance?”

Buzz looked him up and down, as if assessing his sincerity. 

Clay held his breath as he waited for the verdict.

“I’m glad you’re taking responsibility for your actions, but let’s take one thing at a time,” said Buzz neutrally. 

“First, go give the book back. The plane’s not leaving until the afternoon, anyway.”

“You want me to take it to the library?” said Clay, surprised. 

“That’s past the Wall of Trust!”

“You can cross any wall you like—you’re not a camper anymore,” Buzz reminded him.

“But take Como with you. 

He needs a walk.

”With no need for subterfuge, Clay was free to take the most direct route, and he and Como made their way up the hill to the ruins in record time.

As they came in view of the library, however, Clay began to get nervous.

“What’s Uncle Ben going to do if he discovers that the journal no es Price’s?” he asked aloud, half to Como, half to himself. 

“Sí, sí, I’ll play dumb, like I don’t know what’s supposed to be written inside, but let’s face it: There’s a pretty good chance he won’t believe me anyway. And that guy has serious anger issues.”

Ignoring his human companion, Como continued walking toward the library. 

Clay rushed to catch up.

When they got there, the library looked more shut down and unassailable than ever. 

Clay looked upward, hoping to see Mira, but all the windows were dark. 

Clay didn’t want to aggravate the situation by breaking in for a second time, so he tried knocking on the front doors. 

Alas, nobody answered.

Next he tried the side door. 

But as soon as he started turning the dial on the lock, he could tell that the combination had been changed. 

It wasn’t PROSPERO any longer. 

It didn’t even start with P. 

The custodian had made sure that Clay wouldn’t be able to enter ever again.

“What are we supposed to do, leave the journal on the doorstep?” he muttered to the llama. 

“It could be days before he picks it up.”

There was a metal slot next to the front doors that Clay hadn’t noticed before. 

BOOK RETURN, it said, just like at a real public library, though most likely the slot had never been used. 

Clay held the journal in his hand for a second longer, feeling oddly reluctant to let go, then deposited it in the slot. 

He could hear it thud on the other side. 

He was about to retrace his steps and return to camp, when Como abruptly turned in the other direction—the direction of the old barn. 

The llama stood still, his ears pointing straight ahead. 

Clay knew by now that forward ears meant the llama was listening to something he deemed unusual or dangerous. 

A second later, Clay heard it: barking. 

And then: banging. 

Clay was almost as scared of facing the barking dog as he was of facing the custodian. 

Even so, he decided to investigate.

“I know, it sounds muy peligroso,” he said to Como. 

“But maybe the custodian is in there. Or maybe even Mira.”

The barking and banging got louder as they made their way through the bushes toward the barn. 

Cautiously, Clay pushed forward and peeked his head out of the bushes. 

The barn door was opening and closing over and over again in the wind. 

Inside, the dog barked madly in time to the banging door.

Suddenly, the wind stopped and the door stopped, and the barking stopped, too.

“Come on, let’s go see what’s going on,” said Clay, more confidently than he felt.

“¡Ándale! ¡Vámonos!” 

He tugged on the llama’s leash, but the llama wouldn’t move.

Now his ears were flat back on his head, which roughly translated as You’re crazy if you think I’m going into that scary old barn, and if you keep pulling me, I’ll spit on you. 

Or however you say that in Spanish.

“Fine, you wait here,” said Clay, figuring it was best to keep the llama away from the other four-legged animal inside. 

He looped the llama’s leash around a tree branch and then, feeling very uneasy, he forced himself to walk over to the barn.

The door was barely hanging on to the old rusty hinges. 

It swung open with a touch.

Grrrr.

Before Clay could step inside, the dog jumped in front of him, growling. 

Clay jumped back. 

The dog stood barely a foot away, straining on his leash. 

Clay had no doubt that the dog would sink his teeth in Clay’s leg if he took another step.

“Hi there, nice doggy…”

It was a bulldog. 

Clay was almost certain he recognized the dog as Skipper’s drooling copilot. 

What was that dog’s name? Tattoo? 

No, that was the other one. Gillian? 

No, Gilligan. 

That was it. 

Of course, Skipper had jeered at him for thinking all dogs looked alike.

Maybe he couldn’t trust his own judgment on the subject. 

Besides, why would the pilot have left his dog here in the barn, so far from camp? 

Still, it couldn’t help to try saying his name.

“Hey, Gilligan,” said Clay. 

“How’s it going?”

The dog continued to regard him suspiciously, but he stopped growling. 

Encouraged, Clay stepped forward. 

“Okay, I’m going to scratch your ear now. You like that, right?”

Slowly, he reached his hand toward the dog’s head. 

So far so good. 

He reached farther and proceeded to scratch, just the way Skipper had suggested weeks ago. 

Soon the dog was sitting down and wagging his tail contentedly. 

A long string of drool connected him to Clay’s arm.

It was Gilligan; it had to be. 

How and why the pilot had left him there, Clay couldn’t guess.

Inside, the barn was not a barn, or it wasn’t being used as a barn, anyway. 

Sometime, long, long ago, it had been converted into an office. 

There were desks and bookshelves and file cabinets—most decayed nearly to the point of being unrecognizable, and all of them covered with dirt and leaves and animal droppings. 

It looked as though nobody had stepped inside for years.

In the center of the room, illuminated by a dusty shaft of light, was a large, hulking dark object. 

Made of iron, it had a table-style base and stood about six feet high. 

A heavy disk attached to a long lever was suspended above the table surface, ready to squash anything unlucky enough to lie below it.

In his nervous state, Clay mistook this mysterious machine for some kind of medieval torture device. 

But when he looked underneath the big disk, he didn’t find a place to bind a prisoner’s hands or head; he found a rack full of wooden blocks, each bearing a raised letter.

Clay looked at the blocks with curiosity.

They were similar to a baby’s alphabet blocks, but smaller; and rather than being multicolored, the letters were covered with black ink.*

It wasn’t a torture device; it was a printing press.

What was the last thing printed on the press? 

Clay wondered. 

A poster? 

A page from a book? 

Like everything else in the barn, the typographic blocks were covered with a thick layer of dust, and it was very difficult to read them—all the more so because the letters, each about an inch long, were backward, as if he were looking in a mirror. 

It took Clay a moment to figure out why: The letters had to be backward in order to print forward.

As he examined the press, the dog started barking again and the door started banging again. 

The wind had picked back up. 

A breeze made its way into the barn, disturbing the dust on the letters, and—bang!—the disk slammed down on the plate below. 

Clay jumped, startled.

When Clay lifted the disk again, three blocks in the center of the plate were left totally dust-free, as if they had been deliberately cleaned and placed there just moments earlier. 

For a second, Clay didn’t recognize the letters. 

They looked like designs or symbols of some sort: two squiggles on either side of a circle. 

But when he read the letters backward, they resolved themselves into that familiar distress signal: SOS

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

THE LAVA WALK

Clay half ran, half walked all the way back to camp, to the annoyance of Como, who sometimes preferred to pick his steps carefully on a downhill slope.

He couldn’t make sense of what he’d seen. 

Although, he had to admit, there was something almost supernatural-seeming about the way the sudden wind had revealed the SOS, his rational mind told him that the wind’s appearance was an accident of timing.

Very likely, he would have discovered the SOS, wind or no wind. 

On the other hand, the placement of those three letters in the exact center of the rack—that could hardly be an accident, could it? 

He felt sure that somebody had left him a message.

“But who? Quién?” he asked Como. 

“Mira, right? There’s nobody else around here except for Uncle Ben, and, I mean, can you imagine him leaving an SOS? No, amigo, you cannot.” 

He laughed at the thought of the angry old bear of a man asking for help.

“What? You think Mira is really a ghost and she was in there with us? Very funny,” Clay continued. 

“But seriously, do you think Mira is in trouble? Does she want our help? What are we supposed to do? I can’t even get into the library anymore. And she’s stuck inside with her creepy uncle! Remember how scared of him she was?”

Distraught, he decided that all he could do was return to camp, find Buzz, and beg to stay. 

If Mira truly needed Clay’s help, he would be of no use to her at home.

As it turned out, Clay didn’t have to beg.

When Clay found him, Buzz was assembling campers and staff around the dome in preparation for the lava walk. 

Before Clay could say anything, Buzz pointed him toward where he was supposed to be.

“Over there, Worm. And make sure you have your flashlight.”

Clay felt a surge of relief at being called Worm once more. 

“Okay, cool,” he said.

He scurried over to join his cabinmates and happily accepted their fist bumps and high fives. 

And yet he couldn’t help thinking that his counselor had let him back in pretty fast, considering he’d made such a point of ostracizing Clay earlier. 

Had it all been for show? 

Had Buzz never really planned on sending him home?

It was yet another unanswerable question to add to the list.

Grouped loosely by cabin, the campers proceeded up a trail that took off from the west side of the lake. 

Their destination: the island’s westernmost lava field, Plume Canyon.

It was only a two-mile hike, but it was slow going on the jungle trail, and by the time they reached Plume Canyon, it was getting dark. 

There were just a few glowing streaks of red left in the sky, uncannily mirrored by the glowing trickles of lava on the ground. 

Illuminated by the lava, smoke and steam rose out of fissures in the rocks, some places in steady streams or “plumes,” some places in intermittent puffs.* 

In the background, Mount Forge loomed, dark and menacing.

As Clay and his Worm-mates settled on a spot where they could all stand without fear of stepping in hot lava, they saw Flint emerging from the jungle. 

He was shirtless and smeared with mud. 

On his back, he carried the bloody carcass of a large hairy animal; he held one leg in each of his hands, while the head rested gruesomely on his shoulder. 

Beside Flint was Adriana, the counselor for the Pond, also covered with mud and blood, and holding a long spear in her hand.

Clay stared at the wild boar hanging down Flint’s back. 

“One of those guys almost killed me my first day on the island.”

Kwan nodded. 

“They’re all over the island. Descended from Price’s pigs.”*

“How do you know?” asked Jonah. 

“You hunted one?”

“Sure, tons of times,” Kwan boasted.

“Don’t believe him,” said Pablo.

“I saw one when I was walking to camp,” said Clay. 

“Those guys are fast.”

“And mean,” said Kwan.

“And ugly,” said Pablo.

Flint lifted the boar high in the air, then dropped the boar to the ground. 

The older boys from Flint’s cabin cheered and beat their chests. 

“The hunters return!” 

“Meat!” 

“Meat!” 

“Meat!”

Shushing them, Adriana pulled a big bundle of banana leaves out of her rucksack. 

Together, she and Flint wrapped the boar with the leaves until only its tusks and tail were visible. 

Somebody handed Flint a shovel, and he started digging into a nearby lava pool. 

He dumped shovelfuls of molten lava on top of the boar until it was covered by a mound of lava sludge. 

Almost immediately, the lava started to blacken and harden.

Clay winced, unable to stop picturing himself in the pig’s place.

Buzz stood in front of the smoking mound. 

“Thank you, Adriana, Flint.”

Adriana made a small bow. 

Flint saluted with a finger.

Buzz turned to the rest of the camp, assembled in front of him. 

“Before commencing, can we observe five minutes of silence? Starting now—”

The silence that ensued was absolute.

There was no wind, no bird or animal cry, no stifled laughter or coughing.

As the red faded from the sky, the pools of lava glowed brighter, and the lava seemed magically to absorb the light of the dying sunset. 

Stars appeared in the blackness above, and Clay had the feeling that he was floating through space, standing on top of a burning comet. 

After their five minutes of silence, Buzz and Flint and the other counselors began to arrange the campers strategically around the lava field, creating a human trail that wound around the glowing lava hot spots. 

When everybody was in place, the counselors began to hum. 

The sound came from low in their throats, like a yoga om. 

Soon the entire camp was humming, infusing the lava field with an unexpected sense of electricity.

One by one, campers were asked to close their eyes. 

They walked the lava trail, navigating by sound alone. 

Whenever somebody came dangerously close to a steam vent or a pool of lava, the nearest person started humming louder in warning.

As Clay walked blind through the lava field, his emotional state kept changing: from disorientation to terror to resignation to giddiness. 

Maybe in some ways it was similar to the imaginary lava walks of childhood, but the fact that it was real made all the difference. 

One false step and you knew your foot would be incinerated. 

And yet you couldn’t be too cautious, or you’d never move. 

There was no choice but to let go of your fear.

After the campers finished, it was the counselors’ turn. 

Flint went last, but he didn’t follow the course everyone else took. 

He threw off his shoes and socks, uttered a strange word Clay had never heard, and then calmly walked across a snaking stream of lava—just like a swami walking across hot coals in an old circus sideshow. 

When he reached dry land, he turned and raised his arms in victory.

Clay rubbed his eyes while people applauded. 

He was getting used to seeing Flint perform astonishing magic tricks, but walking barefoot on molten rock was something else altogether. 

The other Worms, Clay noted, were staring, slack-jawed, at the teen magician. 

At last, Flint had done something that shocked them, too.

“Awesome,” said Pablo.

“You’ll never catch me doing that,” said Kwan.

A moment later, Buzz and Flint stood over the roasting boar. 

The lava mound was now completely black, a rock shell.

“Thank you, mighty beast, for the gift of your life,” said Buzz solemnly.

He turned to the volcano behind them.

“And thank you, mighty mountain, for the gift of your lava. May you protect these young men and women as they journey forth tomorrow into your fiery domain.”

Flint raised a hammer in the air—and brought it down on the smoking lava shell. 

The shell cracked open, revealing the roasted boar. 

The banana leaves had turned to soot, and the boar’s skin was black and crispy.

Buzz started slicing off chunks of the lava-cooked pork and offering them around.

This was the first meat Clay had encountered since he had arrived on the island, and his mouth watered at the smell. 

There were no plates or utensils; Clay ate with his hands, like everyone else. 

Ravenous, he tore into the pork with his teeth, the juices dripping everywhere, eating and eating until the combination of acrid smoke and gamey meat started to sicken him.

When he had had his fill, Clay watched his fellow campers continuing to gorge on wild pig, their faces lit by the glow of the lava. 

They looked like members of some lost tribe of cannibals. 

How many of these people were privy to all the secrets of Earth Ranch, he wondered. 

Who among them knew the answers to the mysteries that haunted him?

Afraid he was going to throw up, Clay moved away from the smoke and found himself face-to-face with Nurse Cora. 

She looked at him with concern from beneath her floor-length silver hair. 

“Are you feeling sick?”

“Huh?” asked Clay.

“Are you feeling sick, Cora asked,” said Buzz, who was standing next to Cora.

“Sick… Cora… asked…” Clay repeated, uncertain why the words sounded so strange to him, as though he’d heard them in a dream.

“Right,” said Buzz. 

“Are you sick?”

Sick… Cora… asked… Sick… Cora… asked…

“Clay?”

“I’m fine,” said Clay, pushing away from the nurse and his counselor.

“Watch out!” 

Pablo grabbed Clay’s arm and pointed to a hole in the ground that Clay had been about to step into.

Steam rose out of it in a steady stream, a sign of volcanic activity below.

“Thanks,” said Clay, pulling away from him.

Clay felt off balance, and his one cogent thought was that he should sit down. 

He scanned his surroundings for a good perch, but he was distracted by the sight of Leira, wearing a baseball hat, standing over a lava pit that was below and to the left of Clay. 

In the light of the lava, her hair, face, and baseball hat looked like shades of the same fiery color, as if he were viewing her through the lens of an infrared camera.

Whether it was due to his dizziness or to the odd angle, Clay found himself reading the name on her hat as ARIEL before he read it as LEIRA. 

Leira was Ariel backward. 

Ariel the tree spirit. 

Ariel, who casts spells on everyone. 

Ariel from The Tempest.

“Can’t I ever get away from that freakin’ play?” 

Clay muttered to himself. 

“Wait a second—”

He stood up straighter. 

Now he knew why the questions from Cora and Buzz had unnerved him.… 

What he was hearing in his head wasn’t Sick Cora asked, it was Sycorax—the name of the witch in The Tempest! 

Hadn’t Leira said Nurse Cora was a witch?

How could he have not seen it earlier? 

Half the names around him were names from The Tempest. 

It wasn’t only Mira—Miranda—who had been playing a part; it was Leira and Nurse Cora, too. 

Who knows, Clay thought wildly, they could all be acting. 

All the counselors and all the campers. 

Maybe that was why Flint had been reading The Tempest—the whole camp was performing together in a Shakespeare production!

It was a crazy idea, but was it possible that everyone had been playing a part? 

For all these weeks? 

While Clay ate and drank with them, and fought with them and befriended them? 

That they’d all been acting while he alone had actually been… living?

If so, what was Flint’s part? 

One of the bad guys, obviously. 

Maybe Sebastian, the other treacherous brother in the play? 

Unless Flint was Antonio, the villainous part Clay had played at school?*

Clay was making himself dizzier and dizzier thinking about it.

His head swam with question after question. 

He figured his best chance of getting his questions answered lay with Leira. 

But by the time he started walking toward her, she—and her telltale hat—were gone.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE 
ACTORS

As soon as Clay got away from the lava feast, the air became clearer and so did his mind. 

He told himself to think rationally. 

What were the chances that an entire camp’s worth of people were secretly putting on a play that only he didn’t know about?

The similarity of the names Leira and Cora to names in The Tempest could easily be coincidental, he reasoned. 

As for everyone else, it was difficult to determine what roles they might be playing. 

In most cases, the characters at camp didn’t match Shakespeare’s characters—at least not that he could see. 

To recast his camp experience as a production of The Tempest, you really had to force it.

By the time he was back on the shore of the lava lake, Clay had fully convinced himself that he had an overactive imagination.

That was when he saw Leira again.

She was standing behind a tree, deep in conversation with somebody whose face was hidden in shadow. 

Leira put her arm around this other person and whispered in his or her ear. 

Clay watched, surprised; he couldn’t think of anybody at camp with whom Leira was that close.

He felt something a lot like jealousy.

He was about to tap Leira on the shoulder, when the moon rose over the lake and he saw the face of Leira’s companion.

Mira.

Clay stared at her, flabbergasted.

The ghost girl of the library was now wearing shorts and a T-shirt, just like a normal girl of the modern world. 

“What are you doing here?” he asked, rushing up to her. 

“Do you guys know each other?”

“Shh!” 

Alarmed, Leira put her finger to her lips.

Clay could tell that Mira was surprised to see him, but she recovered quickly.

“What do you mean? How would I know her?” she whispered. 

“You silly goose!” she added in her typical old-fashioned way.

He looked from one girl to the other. 

Now that Mira was dressed in contemporary clothes, the resemblance was even more striking. 

“Wait, you’re sisters, aren’t you?!” said Clay, the implications just beginning to dawn on him. 

“Admit it, you’re sisters and you’re in it together, this whole thing, whatever it is.”

“Keep your voice down,” said Leira. 

“How could we be sisters? We’ve never even met before.”

“Then why are you here, Mira, or whatever your real name is?” Clay demanded.

“I came to find you,” said Mira. 

“Leira was the first person I saw. She said you went to the library. Didn’t you see my message?”

“What message?”

“The SOS. I think… I’m in danger, and I… I need your help.”

“Yeah, sure you do,” said Clay, his anger at the deception growing. 

“How do you expect me to believe anything either of you says?”

Leira frowned, insulted. 

“Are you saying we’re liars?”

“Yes, and you can stop now, because I figured it out,” said Clay, his conviction getting stronger by the minute. 

“I thought I was insane before, but now I know it’s true. I don’t know why, but you guys are playing parts from The Tempest. You, Mira, you’re Miranda, the magician’s daughter. And you, Leira, you’re Ariel, the tree spirit.…”

“What’s The Tempest?” asked Leira.

“It’s a play by William Shakespeare. You’ve heard of him, I hope,” answered Mira haughtily. 

“As for you, Clay, you must be mad.”

“Oh, come on, you guys, just admit it already,” said Clay, exasperated. 

“I know you’re sisters. Remember, Leira, when you said you had a bookworm sister? That was obviously Mira. I can’t believe I didn’t see it sooner.”

The girls looked at each other, communicating silently.

“Okay, you’re right,” said Leira quietly. 

“That was a big mess-up when I said that—man, did Buzz yell at me—but yeah, she is my sister and she is a bookworm.”

“I am so not a bookworm,” said Mira in a voice that suddenly sounded so not at all old-fashioned.

Leira gave her a look.

“Fine, maybe I am, whatever. But we’re both actresses. And that’s the main thing right now.”

“Aspiring actresses,” Leira corrected.

“Well, anyway, acting is what got us into this whole crazy situation,” said Mira.

“What crazy situation? Can someone please tell me what’s going on?” Clay pleaded.

“To be honest, we’re not totally sure,” said Leira.

“We thought Earth Ranch was a theater camp. When we got here, they told us we were doing experimental ‘life theater’ based on The Tempest.”

“‘An immersive theater experience,’ they called it,” said Mira.

Leira nodded. 

“It seemed really exciting and cool at first, but now it’s getting kind of…”

“Creepy,” said Mira, finishing her sister’s sentence. 

Leira looked around nervously, making sure nobody was within earshot. 

“If they find out we talked to you like this, we’ll get in serious, serious trouble. We’re never supposed to break character, especially with you.”

“They call you the ‘unwitting cast member,’” said Mira.

“Right,” said Leira. 

“Or the ‘audience of one.’”

“So it’s not just you—everyone here is putting on a play? Just for me? Why?” asked Clay, stunned. 

Thinking it was one thing; hearing it said aloud was another.

The girls shrugged.

“Actually, we have no idea what they’re doing,” said Mira.

“We think the idea of theater camp was just an excuse to get us to the island,” said Leira. 

“We don’t think it’s really about The Tempest at all. The play is like a front, a cover-up for something else.”

“You mean that’s what you think,” said Mira.

“You said yourself you were scared,” said Leira.

“I said I was creeped out. Wouldn’t you be if you had to spend all your time in that library with Ben?”

“What does everybody else think?” asked Clay.

“We don’t know—we’re not allowed to talk about anything with anybody,” said Leira. 

“Not even each other.”

“So you’re not supposed to be here right now?” Clay asked Mira, looking around to make sure they were still unobserved.

Mira shook her head. 

“At least she gets to have pretend conversations with people.” 

She pointed to her sister.

“I just sit around by myself all day.”

“So if it’s not a play, then what do you guys think is really happening?” asked Clay.

“I think Earth Ranch is like a cult,” said Leira.

“What do you mean a cult?”

“Like some weird religion or something. I’m afraid they’re going to sacrifice my sister, throw her into a volcano—”

“I told her that was totally crazy,” Mira interrupted.

“You saw them tonight,” said Leira. 

“That lava walk was not normal. Tell her.”

“Oh, come on, nobody’s going to sacrifice anybody,” said Mira. 

“That doesn’t happen in real life.”

“This isn’t real life—that’s the point,” said Leira.

Clay looked at Mira.

“If you don’t think you’re going to be sacrificed, why did you leave that SOS?”

“Actually, that was part of the play—you’re supposed to get all worried about me,” said Mira apologetically. 

“But it’s true I’ve been freaked. Uncle Ben is completely out of his mind. He doesn’t talk to me all day, like I’m really a ghost. Then he locks me up at night, like he’s afraid I’m going to run off or something—”

“See,” said Leira. 

“Next thing you know, they’re going to be fattening you up and roasting you like that pig!”

“Thanks for the reassuring words,” said Mira.

“What about just leaving?” asked Clay.

“There’s no way off the island,” said Leira. 

“Except the plane that Uncle Ben flies.”

“So he is the pilot—I knew it!” said Clay. 

“That’s why his dog was in the barn.”

“Oh, yeah, he plays two parts. I forgot you didn’t know,” said Mira. 

“He’s a pretty good actor, actually.”

“Why don’t you ask to stay in your sister’s cabin?” said Clay.

Mira shook her head. 

“I don’t want to set off any alarms.”

Leira nodded.

“We have to investigate more first, find out what’s really going on.”

“But the volcano overnight starts tomorrow,” Clay protested.

“Right, and we have to go on it,” said Leira firmly.

“But that means Mira could be locked up for days!”

“Clay, is that you?” 

It was Jonah, walking along the lake.

“Uh-oh—I better get out of here,” said Mira, disappearing into the shadows.

Leira followed, slinking away just as Jonah walked up to Clay, his mouth agape.

“Where did that girl come from?” Jonah asked.

“You mean Leira?”

Jonah shook his head. 

“The other one.”

“Oh, so you admit you saw Mira? You’re not going to pretend I was talking to a ghost?” asked Clay.

“Ghost? Was that the girl from the library?”

“Yeah. But that’s not really where she’s from. As you know.”

“What do you mean? I’ve never seen her before in my life. I’ve never seen a girl like her anywhere,” said Jonah reverently. 

“I think… I think I’m in love.”

Clay appraised Jonah. 

He was acting very strangely. 

“Oh, I get it. You play Ferdinand, right?”

Jonah looked blank. 

“Huh?”

“In The Tempest, you fall in love with Miranda at first sight,” said Clay. 

“Although, it does seem a little late in the play for you to be falling for her now…”

“What are you talking about? Who’s Ferdinand?”

“Oh, come on. You even said his line in your sleep. Leira told me everything. You’re better than the guy who played Ferdinand at my school, I’ll give you that.”

His face pale in the moonlight, Jonah grabbed Clay’s arm and squeezed tight. 

“Just shut up, dude, right now, or you’ll mess things up big-time,” he whispered.

“It’s dangerous to talk like that.”

“Please, just tell me what’s going on,” said Clay, thrilled and slightly unnerved that Jonah had finally admitted that something was up. 

“It’s more than just The Tempest—I know that much.”

Jonah looked around nervously. 

“Later. After lights-out. Just trust me: It’s better to play along.”

Jonah gave him another warning squeeze, then ran off into the night.

By prearrangement, the Worms met at midnight in the middle of the banana grove, where there was little chance of being overheard.

It was dark under the banana trees, and Clay, who was standing a little apart from the others by choice, could barely see their faces.

“Well, are you going to tell me what’s going on?” he said angrily. 

“I thought we were friends, and now it turns out you’re all actors?”

“We are your friends!” said Jonah. 

“We weren’t really acting… much.”

“Seriously, dude. Don’t be mad at us,” said Kwan. 

“The only part that was a script was the stuff about the ruins.”

Jonah nodded. 

“That was our main job. To make you wonder about it being haunted or whatever. To get you there.”

“Well, you did a good job on that, all right,” said Clay bitterly.

“It’s not like we felt good about it,” said Pablo. 

“We didn’t like lying.”

Clay shook his head in disgust. 

“So that makes it okay?”

“They told us you’d have fun,” said Kwan. 

“They said you wouldn’t want us to ruin the surprise or whatever.”

“We never thought it would go on so long or get so… weird,” said Jonah.

“What about your personalities?” asked Clay. 

“Was that from the script? Who even are you guys?”

“No, no, it’s not like that,” said Pablo. 

“We’re us. I swear.”

“Or like versions of us,” said Kwan.

“What does that mean?” asked Clay.

“Ourselves, but more so, that’s what they told us to be,” said Jonah.

Clay looked at him skeptically. 

“You’re telling me you really sleepwalk?”

“Uh-huh. I mean, sometimes,” Jonah amended. 

“Yeah, I was faking it that night to get you to go see the bathroom on fire. I admit that. But that story about my neighbor’s garage—that was true. All the stories about why we got sent to camp are true.”

Clay turned to Pablo. 

“And you’re really… uh, an anarchist?”

“You know it,” said Pablo. 

“All my ideas are one hundred percent my own—not that I believe in ownership.”

Clay looked at Kwan. 

“And you—I know you’re really a gambler, ’cause I saw what you do with those cards.” 

Kwan grinned. 

“I give myself away, huh?”

Their story was pretty much the same as Leira’s and Mira’s.

The only difference was that they weren’t expecting a theater camp—just a run-of-the-mill bad-kid camp. 

When they arrived at Earth Ranch, they were told they would be doing “performance therapy” based on a Shakespeare play.

Although they didn’t necessarily think the camp was a cult, they agreed with Leira that there was something strange and possibly sinister going on.

“I mean, c’mon, those bees,” said Pablo. 

“That’s just not right.”

“So they really stung you?” asked Clay.

“Well, no, that was special-effects makeup,” Pablo admitted sheepishly. 

“Remember when you caught me rubbing my arm? I was taking it off.”

Just then a cloud of vog passed over the moon, and it was momentarily pitch-black in the banana grove. 

There was a tremendous rustling from the trees, and the Worms collectively held their breath. 

Had they been found out?

But when the moon shone again, they saw a flock of parrots flying out of the trees, banana peels dangling from their beaks.

“Go on, Pablo, tell Clay your theory,” said Kwan after the last of the parrots had flown away.

“Pablo thinks it’s one of those Lord of the Flies/Survivor–type things,” said Jonah.

Clay laughed. 

“You mean they’re going to let us all kill each other?”

“No, I think they’re going to sell us—to rich guys,” said Pablo earnestly. 

“So on the overnight they can hunt us down for sport.”

Clay tried to process this. 

“You have evidence?”

“’Course he doesn’t,” said Kwan, laughing. 

“It’s totally ridiculous.”

“Think about it,” said Pablo. 

“Who cares about us? We’re the bad kids, remember? Expendable.”

“If they’re just going to kill us, why go through all The Tempest stuff, then?” said Clay. 

“That’s whacked.”

Kwan and Jonah nodded in agreement. 

“Totally whacked.”

“Anyway, I gotta admit, you guys are amazing actors,” said Clay, thinking about the elaborate charade that had just ended.

“I don’t think anybody else could have pulled this thing off. So props to you for that.”

The others grinned. 

Kwan gave a small bow.

“I didn’t say I liked it!”

Clay laughed.

“But you forgive us?” asked Jonah.

Clay looked at his cabinmates.

They looked back with puppy eyes.

“We’re still your cabin, New Worm,” said Kwan.

Pablo nodded. 

“We’ve got your back.”

“Yeah, whatever,” said Clay. 

He figured he had no choice but to let it go. 

“The question is, what do we do next?”

They all looked at one another. 

Nobody had an answer.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX

THE HIKE

In the end, they did nothing. 

Which is to say, they decided to go on the overnight exactly as if nothing had changed.

“We’re already trapped on the island,” Jonah pointed out. 

“They’re in control of us, whether we go or not. What’s the difference?”

At least on the overnight there was a chance that the purpose of their camp would be revealed.

As it turned out, the person who wasn’t going was Buzz. 

He had to “hold down the fort,” he said. 

It was a welcome surprise, and made them feel more optimistic about the trip, until they discovered who would be taking their counselor’s place as their leader: Flint.

Everyone assembled by the lake before embarking.

Strapped to his backpack, each hiker had a volcano “surfboard”—a rough-hewn piece of wood with rope loops to hold your feet; basically, a homemade snowboard. 

The boards were heavy, but the ride down the volcano was the big reward at the end of the hike; nobody wanted to leave his board behind.

The girls, who would be hiking separately under the direction of Adriana, left first. 

They would meet again at the campsite that evening.

The hikers started by following the same trail off the lake that they had taken the night before, but instead of turning into Plume Canyon, they kept climbing until they were looking down on the site of the previous night’s lava walk and feast. 

Plume Canyon looked smaller from this height, and the lava pools less spectacular. 

Where before there had been steady plumes of smoke rising from the fissures in the ground, thin wisps now rose like the dying smoke of so many abandoned campfires.

“Just be glad you guys can see,” said Flint to the hikers as they took in the bleak view. 

“Sometimes the vog is so bad up here, I can’t see my hand.”

After several hours they reached a wide river that seemed mysteriously to end about fifty yards to their right.

Clay guessed—correctly—that there was a waterfall below, the very waterfall that could be seen from camp on a clear day. 

A narrow rope bridge connected one side of the river to the other.

“Just so you know, the current’s pretty strong down there,” warned Flint. 

“You fall in, the water’s gonna want to send you down to the falls.”

“Watch out,” whispered Pablo. 

“This is a perfect spot for them to get a clean shot at us.”

The other Worms rolled their eyes. 

“Sorry to disappoint you,” said Kwan, “but nobody’s trying to take us out.”

Nonetheless, they were all a bit nervous as they walked single file on the swaying bridge, holding the rope rails to steady themselves.

Flint made it across first.

As if he were reading their minds, he held up a knife to the rope supports. 

“This way I can get rid of you all at once!”

Flint laughed, pocketing his knife. 

“I was just joking, you pathetic losers!”

The hike was strenuous, but worse than his sore muscles were the pangs of hunger that had started afflicting Clay around lunchtime. 

Each camper had been allocated one handful of trail mix. 

Any other food, they would have to forage.

As they hiked, Clay and his cabinmates started talking about their favorite meals, one-upping each other with descriptions of lobsters and cheeseburgers and everything in between. 

It all sounded great to Clay. 

Even a typical Earth Ranch kale salad now seemed irresistibly delicious.

They were still lost in food-fantasy land when they reached a dark gaping hole in the mountainside. 

Flint entered without stopping.

“C’mon, Worms, it’s a big wormhole—this should be right up your alley!”

It wasn’t a big wormhole, of course; it was a lava tube, a tunnel formed by a river of lava so forceful that it had carved its way through the mountain.

Holding their flashlights in front of them, the campers walked through the tunnel single file. 

The tunnel had rippled black rock walls that widened and narrowed over and over again, as if a giant hand were squeezing it, forcing the kids sometimes to crouch, sometimes to crawl. 

Clay, whose head kept hitting the ceiling, couldn’t help imagining getting trapped inside by another volcanic eruption. 

Just as the claustrophobia was about to become unbearable, he saw sunlight reflecting in a puddle of water. 

In all, it took about twelve minutes to walk from one end of the tunnel to the other, but it seemed much longer.

When they came out, they were standing at the base of Mount Forge. 

From where they stood in a small rocky ravine, the blackened mountain looked impossible to climb. 

The slope was steep, but worse than that, it was perfectly smooth. 

This side of the volcano, the south side, was covered entirely in ash. 

It was the side that they would be surfing down, Flint explained. 

To climb to the top, they would first hike to the north side of the volcano.

The girls had laid their sleeping bags by a steaming pool with a yellowish-greenish cast—a hot spring, although not one that anybody wanted to swim in. 

The boys laid their bags on the other side of the water so that they were separated much the way their cabins were back at camp. 

The water was smelly and sulfurous, but according to Flint and Adriana, Vulcan Springs, as it was known, provided the best campsite in the vicinity.

At some point during the summer session, everyone had actually learned to start a fire, and soon there was a fire tall enough to reflect in the murky hot springs. 

Clay half expected Flint and Adriana to return with another pig to roast, but no such luck.

Still, there were several edible plants growing nearby, and the kids foraged with varying degrees of success.

“Isn’t this great?” said Leira, sitting down with the boys for dinner.

“Sure, if you like eating weeds,” said Clay.“

Try this—it’s a nettle,” she said, handing Clay a thorny leaf.

“Looks more like needles to me.”

“I brought the main course,” said Pablo, standing over them with a closed fist.

“What, you got some of Jonah’s licorice stashed away, I hope?” asked Kwan.

“No. I’ve got something way more nutritious.” 

Pablo opened his palm and revealed a handful of iridescent green beetles. 

“Lots of protein in these critters.”

“Gross,” said Leira. 

“Bug Killer.”

“Yeah, I think I’ll pass, too,” said Jonah.

“You’re missing out,” said Pablo, popping a beetle into his mouth and chewing with an audible crunch.

“Most of the world eats bugs. It’s just us squeamish Westerners who think we’re too good for them.”

The plan was to make it to the top of Mount Forge by sunrise. 

Which meant waking at four a.m. 

Which meant going to sleep early.

Clay tried to fall asleep along with the others, but he tossed and turned in his tight sleeping bag for what seemed like hours. 

Unable to keep his eyes closed, he watched the ominous clouds of vog float across the night sky.

Where was Flint leading them? Were they in danger? 

Would the real purpose of Earth Ranch be revealed here by the volcano?

He kept having the feeling there was something he was forgetting. 

Some key piece of information.

As he drifted off to sleep he remembered what it was: his birthday. 

It was tomorrow.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN

THE CRATER

Ow.” 

“Ouch.” 

“Aw, man.”

Flint woke everyone with a kick. 

There were many groans and cries of protest, but in a few minutes the campers were packed up.

They were to leave most of their things to be picked up on the way back.

Clay was the last of the Worms to get out of his sleeping bag.

“Hurry up,” said Jonah. 

“You know Flint would be happy to leave you behind.”

The others were all heading toward their final ascent in the darkness, flashlights in hand and volcano boards strapped to their backs.

The plan was to make it to the top in time to watch the sunrise from the lip of the crater. 

But it was slow going.

Most of the volcano was covered with ash, even on the north side of the mountain. 

The hikers had to pick their way among rocks and patches of harder ground. 

At times they would come upon an unexpected precipice or other dead end, and they would have to switch course.

There wasn’t much talking. 

Everyone was too tired. 

And too spread apart despite the fact that they’d been told to stay close together. 

It was a long and steep hike in the dark. 

At times, Clay could see none of his fellow hikers; and then flashlights would appear like fireflies darting back and forth up the mountain. 

As they progressed, one after another hiker stopped to rest or tie a shoe or have a swig of water. 

The volcano seemed to be wearing everyone down. 

Clay kept trudging forward and eventually found himself passing everyone but Flint, who was leading the way.

After about an hour and a half, Clay noticed that his feet were getting cold. 

He looked down and was surprised to find that he was hiking in snow. 

His sneakers were wet through to his toes. 

In fact, he was cold all over. 

Like the other campers, he wore only a sweatshirt for warmth; nobody had brought winter gear to the tropical island.

A glimmer of dawn lit the horizon, and the sky was starting to turn from black to gray, but visibility was still spotty; clouds of vog kept blowing by. 

Clay put his bandanna around his mouth to ward off the chill as well as the vog as best he could.

The first sun rays touched him just before he reached the top. 

The wind had picked up, and now he could see all the way to the ocean. 

He almost thought he could see the black beach on which he had landed weeks ago. 

To his far right were the smooth ashy slopes of the south side of the volcano—where they would be “surfing” later that morning.

It wasn’t necessarily where he would have expected to celebrate his birthday, but all in all, not a bad spot to turn thirteen.

He turned, looking for Leira or one of the Worms to share the moment with.

There was no one there.

“Hey, is anybody around? Can anybody hear me?” he called out. 

“Yo, dudes! Answer me!”

His voice was lost in the wind.

He figured he must be far ahead of the others. 

Unless they had passed him in the dark? 

Either way, he would see them at the top.

The last twenty feet or so, he was walking on ice. 

His feet kept slipping and he fell more than once, scraping himself on the ice and ash. 

His hands felt raw and he could feel his knee bleeding beneath his jeans. 

It would have been impossible to get to the top were it not for a few rocks jutting out from the mountain.

These gave him just enough of a hold to pull himself up.

The top of the volcano was much bigger and flatter than it had looked from below, not quite the size of a soccer field. 

Hard icy snow covered most of the ground, except where plumes of smoke or bubbles of lava melted it. 

On the far side, the ground dropped off into sky. 

On the side where Clay stood, little jagged peaks stuck out where the mountaintop had broken away. 

The volcano had literally blown its lid. 

The crater was in the middle. 

A perfect circle, except in a few places where the edges had collapsed. 

Clay had imagined he would see red, bubbling molten magma inside the crater. 

Instead, there was water. 

The surface of the water was perfectly smooth, and as Clay looked at it, it turned from inky black to a silvery mirror—like a giant mood ring reflecting the changing colors of the sky.*

He walked to the edge and saw himself looking up from the water with his big searching eyes. 

His face was smudged; his clothes were torn; his hair, wilder than ever. 

His wooden volcano surfboard slid forward slightly and stuck out over his head; it looked like something dark and predatory about to overtake him—a floating shark, perhaps, or a stealth aircraft.

And then there was someone else standing by his side.

Flint.

Clay turned to face the older boy. 

“Where is everybody?”

Flint shrugged.

“Slow, I guess.”

Flint held something in his hand. 

It was a small, crudely made rag doll, with red yarn hair and a polka-dot handkerchief dress. 

It looked like a voodoo doll, at once harmless and frightening.

Clay felt sick to his stomach.

“Is that supposed to be Mira?”

“I made it in the Art Yurt,” said Flint. 

“Do you like it?”

“What are you doing with it?”

Staring at Clay with his icy blue eyes, Flint stepped closer to the edge of the crater. 

He dangled the doll by a string tied to its leg.Clay watched, incredulous. 

“You’re dropping it into the crater?”

Not saying anything, Flint carefully lowered the doll headfirst into the crater.

“Is this your way of saying you’re done with her?” asked Clay hopefully.

“It’s my way of saying she’s done,” said Flint.

Clay remembered Leira’s prediction that her sister would be sacrificed in a volcano. 

It appeared to be happening—but as a strange and disturbing puppet show.

“Is this part of the play?” Clay asked.

“There’s no play,” said Flint. 

“There never was a play.”

“What, then?”

Flint smiled. 

“A magic show?”

Then he pronounced that strange word in the language Clay didn’t recognize.

The doll had almost hit its target.

The silvery water rose upward to meet it, as if pulled by an invisible gravitational force, then fell back down with a loud splash. 

As ripples spread outward, Clay thought he saw Mira’s face reflected briefly in the water. 

Then the water disappeared, replaced by roiling, churning, glowing lava. 

Clay tried to comprehend what he was seeing, but he couldn’t. 

It was spectacular and terrifying and absolutely magical.

“You still think magic sucks?” asked Flint snidely.

Now the doll was almost submerged. 

As lava bubbled and spurted around it, the doll’s hair caught on fire, and Flint yanked on the string. 

He pulled the burning doll out of the crater like a fish.

“Wait ’til you see what comes next.”

He swung the doll back and forth. 

Its hair burned unnaturally bright, more like a flare gun than flaming cotton.

“Price was a great magician, but he was a coward,” said Flint, the fire passing in and out of his eyes. 

“What’s the life of one girl compared to the power of fire? Price had everything within his grasp, and he gave it up because of his silly guilt.”

“What do you mean? Where are you going with that thing?” 

Clay still couldn’t tell what Flint was up to or how serious he was.

“Where do you think? The volcano wants to be fed, and I will feed it,” said Flint. 

“She will burn, and I will have the volcano’s magic.”

“This isn’t real,” said Clay. 

“You’re just saying lines. You’re not really going to kill anybody.”

“Maybe that’s what Buzz and Eli think,” said Flint scornfully. 

“But deep down they know what needs to be done, and I’m doing it.”

Holding the doll aloft like a torch, Flint ran to the far side of the volcano.

“Don’t try to stop me,” he called over his shoulder, “or you and everyone else will burn, too!”

With that parting sally, he grabbed his volcano board off his back, tossed it over the edge, and jumped after it.

Clay stood on top of the volcano for a moment, too stunned to move.

If Flint was to be believed, Mira was about to burn to death. 

But where? 

How?

The library, thought Clay. 

He’s headed to the library. 

He’s going to light it on fire. 

Flint was rewriting Randolph Price’s story to his own liking.

And then Clay stepped into action.

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT

VOLCANO SURFING

There was a twelve-to fourteen-foot drop. 

Then snow. 

Then ash. 

And ash. 

And more ash. 

All the way down the mountain.

Normally, Clay would have spent some time standing on the edge, before getting the courage to jump. 

He didn’t have the worst case of vertigo in the world. 

But he didn’t not get vertigo, either.

This time, he didn’t hesitate. 

He tossed his board into the snow below, gulped, then jumped right after it the way Flint had.

The snow went on for about thirty yards.

Clay had only snowboarded once—on a school trip that got cut short when a classmate broke her arm. 

He slid around, unable to catch an edge with the handmade wooden board, and almost started spinning uncontrollably. 

But then he righted himself, willing his skateboarder legs to adjust to the wheel-less ride across the ice crystals.

Far below, he could see Flint surfing the ash.

Gray clouds billowed in his wake as he effortlessly carved his way down the mountain. 

Flint was going so fast, he would make it to their base camp in minutes.

And then… 

Watching Flint, Clay failed to prepare for the transition to dry land and did a face-plant in the ash. 

It wasn’t as soft as it looked, but as far as he could tell, he didn’t break anything. 

He just got scratched up. 

And got a lot of ash in his mouth and eyes… and nose… and ears. 

His pockets were full of ash, too.

By the time he wiped himself off and stood shakily to his feet, he couldn’t see Flint anymore. 

Just a few clouds dissipating at the bottom of the mountain.

He put his bandanna back around his face, slipped his feet under the rope loops of his board, then started wiggling back and forth until he was moving down the ash slope.

The ash was slower than the snow, allowing Clay to get used to the feel of it. 

Soon he was making long arcing turns, ash spraying behind him. 

The slope was smooth and steep and very, very long.

He was so lost in his mission that at first it almost didn’t register. 

And then it did. 

He was surfing a volcano.

Who needed Kill Hill? 

This was awesome.

The campsite was empty. 

Only Clay’s backpack remained.

There was no indication that anyone else had ever been there.

Clay threw his shredded board to the ground and put his backpack on. 

He looked for signs of what direction Flint had taken, but he couldn’t find any. 

He would have to retrace their steps back to Earth Ranch.

When he got to the mouth of the lava tube, he realized he no longer had his flashlight. 

It must have fallen out somewhere on the mountain. 

While he debated what to do, he saw a curl of smoke coming out of the lava tube. 

He ran inside.

At first, it was so dark, he couldn’t see. 

And he had to walk slowly with his arms outstretched, navigating by feel, coughing from the smoke. 

But soon there was a glimmer of light ahead. 

Flint? 

It went in and out of view, but Clay kept pushing forward in the dark.

He hit his head, scraped his shoulder, tripped and fell. 

More than once he worried he would die there in that tunnel, a present-day casualty of a volcanic eruption that occurred long ago. 

But somehow he made it all the way to the end.

When he came out on the other side, he thought he saw the burning doll again in the distance. 

He ran toward it, only to find that Flint had made a fire next to a tree. 

The fire was small, just a few twigs and leaves, but there was a good possibility it would spread and cause a forest fire if left unattended. 

Clay covered the fire with dirt and stamped on it until it was out.

There was another fire about a quarter mile down the trail. 

And then another. 

And another. 

Flint had left a trail of fires behind him, like signposts leading the way. 

Clay snuffed them out as he went along, cursing to himself about how much time it was taking.

Between fires he ran to make up the time. 

What had been a seven-hour hike going up took no more than two hours going back.

When Clay could finally see the library, Flint was standing in the doorway, as if he’d been waiting for him. 

He waved to Clay with the burning doll.

“Cool—you made it,” Flint shouted. 

“Now I’ll have an audience for my biggest fire ever!”

“Stop! Don’t do this!” Clay shouted back.

Without responding, Flint disappeared into the library. 

The door closed behind him. 

It seemed he was going to burn down the library from within.

Clay was about to try to run in after Flint when he noticed it: The ring of flowers that had circled the building was gone, replaced by hot molten rock.

A lava moat was guarding the library.

Clay stared in horror. 

There was nothing he could do. 

Part of him, most of him, had believed it was all a charade. 

But the lava said otherwise.

He looked up to the top of the tower. 

Mira was back in her window. 

The last time he’d seen her there, she had tried to shoo him away. 

This time, she beckoned to him with an imploring look. 

Did she already know Flint was inside?

That all the books would burn? And that she would, too?

The bees came first, flying so close that he had to close his eyes.

When he opened them, Buzz was at his side.

“Hail, Young Worm,” said his counselor.

“The lava,” said Clay. 

“It’s real; it’s not magic.”

“It’s real. And magic.”

“I don’t believe you,” said Clay, willing it to not be true. 

“And I don’t believe Flint is really going to burn down the library.”

Buzz looked him in the eye. 

“Is that a risk you want to take?”

“You guys wouldn’t let him,” Clay insisted. 

“You wouldn’t let him hurt Mira.”

“Maybe not,” Buzz said levelly. 

“Or maybe we have faith that you will stop him in time.”

“But how?” asked Clay, miserable. 

“There’s no way I can get in.”

“Sure there is. The library doors are right in front of you.”

“I’m supposed to walk across the lava?” Clay looked down at his sneakers. 

The rubber soles were almost worn out already. 

“My shoes will melt in seconds.”

“True. If you wear them.”

Buzz put his hand on Clay’s shoulder. 

“Just remember, you have to mean it.”

“Mean what?” asked Clay.

“The magic,” said Buzz. 

“Remember, you’re every bit as strong a magician as Flint is. You just have to trust in yourself.”

Clay looked at the moat again, hoping vainly that he would see a way through that he’d missed.

When he looked back, Buzz was gone. 

Clay’s only companions were the bees. 

Clay blinked in surprise. 

It was as if he had hallucinated the conversation.

Was he really supposed to walk barefoot across the lava? 

Flint had done it at the lava feast. 

But Flint was insane. 

A pyromaniac with a death wish.

And yet if Clay didn’t walk…? 

Clay thought of Price’s niece, the original Mira, who had burned in Price Palace. 

It wasn’t so much that Flint had been rewriting Price’s story, but that he, Clay, was reliving it—with a twist. 

He was being asked to right the wrong, he now understood. 

To reverse history. 

It seemed impossible, fantastical, but he had to try.

The whole summer, his whole experience at camp, it had all been leading up to this moment—this moment when he would use magic to enter the library and save Mira.

But what magic?

There was that strange word he remembered Flint pronouncing, the word that sounded like it was part of no language he knew.

Was it a magic word—a bad word, as Clay and his brother used to call them? 

For Flint, it sure seemed to work like one.

According to Buzz, it wasn’t enough to say it; he had to mean it.

Could he mean it? 

Until now he’d assumed Flint’s magic tricks were just that. 

Tricks.

Illusions. 

Stage magic, even if they weren’t on a stage. 

Like Clay and his brother used to do.

Now he was being asked to believe the magic was something else. 

Something more than cheese-wizardry.

Just say it, he told himself.

He spoke the word loudly, emphatically, trying his best to mean it, even if he didn’t know what the word meant.*

He looked at the lava; it was unchanged. 

But on the stone wall of the library was the word he had just pronounced—in his handwriting, but in big letters. 

Much the way MAGIC SUCKS! had appeared on Mr. Bailey’s wall at school.

As he marveled, the word disappeared. 

It was time.

He pulled off his shoes and socks, and took a tentative step—“Ow!”—and recoiled.

He tried again. 

The lava felt hot, painfully hot. 

But asphalt-in-the-sun hot, sandy-beach-in-summer hot, not molten-rock hot.

Girding himself, he started walking. 

Quickly but not so quickly that he was running. 

He made himself think cold thoughts. 

He imagined the snow on top of Mount Forge coming down the mountain in an avalanche and covering all the lava. 

Amazingly, the lava seemed to cool beneath his feet. 

By the time he got to the other side of the moat, it felt icy cold. 

He could feel snow between his toes.

“Help! Clay!”

Mira was crying for him from inside.

In a kind of dream state, he pulled open the heavy library doors. 

He expected to hear more cries. 

Instead, he heard cheers.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE

CURTAIN CALL

Everybody was there.

They all stood around the checkout desk, applauding, big grins on their faces. 

Leira in her newsboy cap. 

Buzz in his beekeeper outfit. 

Nurse Cora in her hair. 

The Worms wore makeshift party hats and Mardi Gras necklaces. 

Caliban wore a flower lei. 

It looked to Clay as though he had interrupted a going-away party or a birthday celebration.

“Hi, were you looking for me?” Mira stepped up to Clay, back in her polka-dot dress.

She offered him a glass of something pink. 

“Punch?”

Overwhelmed, Clay automatically took it. 

He held the glass in his hand, not drinking, just staring.

“Why is everybody here?” he asked, his voice coming out in a whisper.

“Why are they clapping?”

“They’re clapping for you, silly,” said Mira. 

“That’s what you do when the show is over.”

Clay blinked, trying to absorb what she was saying. 

“You mean it never ended? It was always still… on? The play, or whatever it was.”

He had suspected this might be the case, but he couldn’t quite believe it, even now.

Mira nodded. 

“This is the cast party and curtain call rolled into one. You should take a bow.”

“But I didn’t do anything. I’m just the audience, remember?”

Mira laughed. 

“What do you mean? You’re the star of the show.”

Clay looked around, stunned. 

The library was much brighter than it had been the last time he was inside. 

It was like they’d turned on the houselights, now that the show was over.

Clay’s fellow Worms were smiling and nodding at him.

“That was awesome,” said Jonah.

“Yeah, you really pulled it out in the end,” said Kwan.

Pablo raised a fist. 

“Way to go, man.” 

Caliban, standing next to Pablo, raised a fist as well.

Still trying to take it in, Clay half raised his fist in response.

“My turn,” said Leira, pulling her sister away from Clay.

“Welcome back.” 

“Uh… thanks, I think?”

“You dropped something up there—”

She handed Clay his wallet. 

He looked at it blankly.

“What—? Oh, right, heh.” 

He forced a smile.

Skipper, the pilot, was next. 

He stepped up to Clay—“Nice job, Shakespeare”—and pulled off his gray-ponytailed wig, revealing himself to be Uncle Ben, the old custodian.

“Hey, Skipper—I mean, Uncle Ben,” Clay managed. 

“So you were part of this, too?”

“The name is Owen.” 

The bald man took a rag out of his pocket and started wiping off spots and scabs and wrinkles. 

The octogenarian quickly became a man of thirty—with a shaved head. 

“And Gilligan—well, that’s what he’s actually called.”

Gilligan the bulldog, not exactly docile, but much sweeter than he’d ever been before, nuzzled Clay’s leg. 

Clay distractedly scratched behind the dog’s ear, and the dog licked his hand.

Buzz stepped up, a warm smile on his face. 

“Congratulations, Worm. We knew you had it in you.”

Behind Buzz, lurking in the background, was Flint. 

He nodded at Clay, but he didn’t break a smile.

Evidently, he was part of the show, too, but he didn’t seem altogether pleased with the way things had gone. 

Clay wondered how much of Flint’s animosity toward him had been real, how much scripted.

“And here at last is the director of our camp—” Buzz gestured toward a short hobbit-like man in sandals and mismatched socks.

“Hiya, Clay,” boomed a familiar voice. 

“I know it’s a little late, but welcome to Earth Ranch.”

“Mr. Bailey?” Clay was surprised to see his language arts teacher… but not very surprised. 

Nothing surprised him very much anymore.

“Call me Eli,” said Mr. Bailey, beaming. 

“Great performance.  Bravissimo.”

“You were watching?”

“From the back row, you could say. Hard to guide the action if you can’t see anything.”

Clay thought of Over There, the mysterious moving teepee—and the sense he’d often had that the director was just around the corner.

“So you’re not just the director of the camp—you were the director of the show?” said Clay. 

“Just like at school.”

Mr. Bailey shrugged his shoulders. 

“We don’t think of it so much as a show. More of a game.”

Clay’s big eyes narrowed. 

“What kind of game?”

“The Hero Game, we call it. Everybody here has played—their own versions, of course. For Kwan we made up a junior poker championship. Pablo we threw into an imaginary civil war. I don’t think we’ve ever used Shakespeare before.…”

“So everything that happened—the ghost, the journal, the lava—it was all like game levels or something?”

A feeling that was part anger and part disappointment had been building inside Clay ever since he entered the library. 

It was like a stomachache he was trying to ignore. 

His leg jiggled.

“What about Gideon? Did he really write on your wall, like you said in your letter?”

Mr. Bailey shook his head. 

“No. Sorry about that. I couldn’t think of any other explanation.…”

“And those guys—” Clay nodded toward the other campers, the people he’d thought were his friends. 

“Even at the end, they were just acting like we were all in it together?”

“It wasn’t like that—” Jonah protested.

“Right. Nothing’s really like anything here, is it?” said Clay, a sour taste in his mouth. 

“Nothing here is real.”

“Nothing in the Hero Game is real or unreal,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“Remember what we said about fiction in class? It’s a lie that tells the truth.”

Clay nodded—slightly. 

Sure he remembered. 

But he also remembered what he’d thought at the time: A lie is a lie.

“And what about—” Clay could barely bring himself to say it aloud. 

“What about the magic?”

“What about it?” asked Mr. Bailey.

“Never mind, it doesn’t matter,” said Clay, humiliated.

Of course magic wasn’t real—no more so than his friendships with the other campers.

He, Clay, the cynic, had been duped. 

Tricked into believing in something that didn’t exist. 

Flint and Buzz were just expert illusionists, that was all. 

Earth Ranch was like one big Las Vegas magic show with lava and bees instead of dancing girls and tigers.

He should have been relieved to learn the magic was a hoax; after all, he was the guy who wrote MAGIC SUCKS! in his journal. 

So why were his eyes filling with tears?

“I guess you proved your point, didn’t you?” said Clay, his emotions bursting to the surface. 

“I’m just as dumb as everybody else. Everybody falls for magic tricks in the end, right?”

“You didn’t fall for magic,” said Mr. Bailey quietly. 

“You found it. In yourself. That’s how we know you’re ready.”

Clay glared at his teacher. 

“Ready for what? To be conned again?”

“To be a magician.”

“You think I want to be a magician?” Clay snorted. 

“After what you guys did? You’re just like my brother. A bunch of fakes.”

“That’s what Max-Ernest thought you would say,” said Mr. Bailey.

Clay froze. 

“Wait—what did you say?”

“I said, that’s what Max-Ernest thought you would say.”

“You—you know my brother?” Clay stammered.

Mr. Bailey nodded. 

“He helped write your game. He even named it.”

He pointed to a banner hanging above the checkout desk. 

BAD MAGIC it said in glittery gold letters. 

In his delirium, Clay had missed it earlier.

“The kids wanted to change it to MAGIC SUCKS!,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“But as a teacher, I just couldn’t—”

“Where is he?” Clay demanded.

“At the moment, I don’t know.”

“But he’s my brother!”

“I’m sorry, Clay,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“You just have to trust him.”

Clay looked at his teacher, tears trickling down his cheeks.

“You know what, forget it,” said Clay, a deep despair taking the place of the emotions that had been roiling inside him. 

“He obviously doesn’t want to see me, anyway.” 

He just wants to play tricks on me, Clay added in his head. 

“I should have known. This whole thing—it’s something only Max-Ernest would do.”

Wiping his eyes, Clay turned toward the exit. 

“Uncle Ben, Skipper, Owen, whatever your name is—I’m going to go wait by your plane.”

Mr. Bailey put his hand on Clay’s shoulder. 

“I understand how you feel, Clay. But before you go, there’s something you might want to see—”

The banyan tree that grew out of the bottom of the library seemed even larger to Clay when he stood at the base. 

The trunk was so wide that there was almost no space to walk around it. 

And so many roots dangled from the tree that it was almost impossible to see more than one or two feet ahead. 

He wasn’t sure what he was looking for—Mr. Bailey had merely pointed him in the direction of the tree—and he was half-inclined to give up the search and exit the library as he’d planned. 

Instead, he pushed his way through the roots, circling the tree.

He’d almost made a full circle when he noticed a faint buzzing sound coming from the tree trunk. 

Another beehive?
Cautiously, he stepped closer, and saw it: a small round door at the base of the tree, surrounded by roots on all sides. 

In the middle of the door was a brass knob.

The buzzing grew louder.

Clay remembered Uncle Ben—Owen, he reminded himself—saying something about a vault underneath the tree. 

A vault that contained Price’s most precious books. 

Is that what this was? 

Then why the buzzing?

Clay tried the knob, but the door was locked or stuck. 

Or maybe it’s fake, Clay thought. 

Like everything else on the island.

“It was locked by Max-Ernest,” said Mr. Bailey, who had walked up beside Clay. 

“Only you know the word that will open it.”

Clay frowned. 

“How would I know it?”

“He said it was the first magic word you ever learned. He wouldn’t tell us what it was.”

Clay studied the door for a moment; he couldn’t imagine which word—of all the magic words that they had spoken to each other—Max-Ernest might have been thinking of.

What was strange was Max-Ernest calling it a magic word instead of a bad word, as they usually did.

Then, suddenly, Clay grinned. 

That was the clue.

Max-Ernest loved reversals. 

If bad word meant magic word, then magic word meant bad word. 

The magic word Clay needed now wasn’t the first magic word he ever learned, it was the first bad word he ever learned.

The old kind of bad word.

The bad kind.

Clay stood as tall as he could. 

"#&*%!!!" he said, perhaps not quite as loudly as he had in that elevator when he was three years old, but with no less feeling.

No sooner had Clay spoken this terrible word than it appeared on the tree trunk in front of him. 

It looked as if it had been burned into the tree by a thoughtless vandal.

Mr. Bailey looked at Clay, aghast. 

“What have you done, young man? If you were in school, I’d expel you all over again!”

“Sorry,” said Clay, mortified. 

“I didn’t know it would do that.”

“Oh, it’s okay, just this once,” said Mr. Bailey, the ghost of a smile on his lips. 

“Look—”

The offensive letters were already fading; the tree trunk was restored.

As Clay watched, the small round door swung open, exposing the top of a steep ladder.

CHAPTER THIRTY

THE LIBRARY INSIDE THE LIBRARY

From above, the vault looked an awful lot like a dungeon.

As he climbed down the ladder, Clay heard a cacophony of unnerving sounds. 

Not just buzzing. 

There was humming.

Rustling. 

Fluttering. 

Squeaking. 

It didn’t sound like bees. 

Or not only bees.

Maybe bats?

There were no bats. 

Nor even any bees.

Only books.

It was chaos. 

They floated in the air, some gently swaying, some flapping like birds. 

Some were stuck in the roots that grew out of the ceiling. 

Others lay in piles on the stone floor. 

There were big books and small books. 

Old books and new books. 

But they were all, it was impossible not to see, magic books.

It was a library inside the library. 

A magic library. 

“A bit less organized here than upstairs, isn’t it?” said Mr. Bailey, descending the ladder. 

“Magic is like that.”

As he stared dumbfounded, Clay saw a familiar red leather book flying toward him, pages flapping wildly. 

Clay grabbed it out of the air and opened it.

As he expected, he saw his own writing inside. 

MAGIC SUCKS! 

But a second later his bubble letters started to dissolve as if he’d poured water on them, and The Memoirs of Randolph Price came into focus. 

So there had been only one journal after all—one magic journal!

No sooner had Clay come to that conclusion, however, than Price’s writing started to melt away, revealing another layer of writing hidden behind it.

The Book of Prospero it now read on the title page.

Clay paged through quickly. 

It was just as Price had described, full of strange drawings and spells and magical potions. 

A grimoire.

The red journal wasn’t just a magic book—it was also a book of magic.

And that wasn’t the only surprise: Folded inside was a letter—in handwriting Clay hadn’t seen in a long while.

Happy birthday, Clay!

I hope you didn’t think I forgot! 

I would never forget your birthday. 

Okay, so I forgot last year. 

I’m sorry, I was very busy with—never mind, there’s no excuse, I’m just sorry. 

And I’m sorry I cannot be there today. 

Try not to hate me. 

And if you have to hate me, don’t hate magic. 

Magic is not a bad word. 

Or if it is, it’s our kind of bad word.

The good kind.

I hope you’ve figured out by now what a great magician you are and will be. 

I knew you were a natural from the time you did that rope trick when you were five. 

I should have acknowledged it then. 

But the truth is, well, I was jealous. 

I know it’s nuts to be jealous of a five-year-old, but there you are. 

This may come as a surprise to you, it comes as a surprise to me, but I’ve never been a great magician. 

Too clumsy. 

Too anxious.

You may think that rope tricks have nothing to do with “real” magic, but stage magic and real magic are a lot closer than most people suppose. 

That’s something I learned from an old man named Pietro, whom I will tell you more about someday. 

Magic, it is what is left when you stop pretending to understand, he told me. 

My problem is I can’t stop pretending to understand. 

But you—you don’t pretend at all. 

You’re the most honest person I know.

Why did I run away? 

The answer is: you. 

Not to get away from you. 

To protect you. 

I see now that my absence is not enough. 

In fact, ignorance may harm you. 

I’m not going to say magic runs deep within you or anything like that, because I know you would say it was cheesy or cheese-wiz-y or whatever it is you say, but believe me when I say the magical world is going to catch up with you one way or another. 

Not just because you are my brother, but because you are you.

I cannot spare you—it’s time to join the fight. 

The Other Side is in danger from people who would twist it to their own ends, no matter what the cost. 

We must stop them.

I will see you soon. 

You are in good hands until then.

Love, your proud brother,
M-E

Clay looked up from the letter, his eyes wet. 

He had been so absorbed in what he was reading that he almost forgot he was in a room full of floating books.

“Well, are you in? Will you join us?” asked Mr. Bailey, who had been standing at a respectful distance while Clay read.

“Yeah, dude, will you?” 

“Come on, man!” 

“Just join!”

It was the Worms, crowding around the trapdoor above. 

They grinned down at Clay.

“Join what?” he asked, confused.

“SOS: The Society of the Other Side,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“That’s who we are. Everyone on the island.”

“SOS…” Clay repeated.

“So that’s what the message on the printing press was about?”

Mr. Bailey nodded.

“And the sign on the beach?”

“A way to identify the island,” said Mr.  Bailey. 

“Not a plea for help.”

Clay held up the letter from Max-Ernest. 

“This society, does it have something to do with the fight my brother was talking about?”

“The fight to protect the Other Side, yes,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“So what do you say? If you like, Owen will fly you back this afternoon. But if you want to stay, well, I think you’ll find my language arts class a little more exciting here than at home!”

“Just say yes!” 

“Don’t be a loser!” 

“Stay and play with us, you dork!” the Worms chorused from above.

Clay nodded, unable to stop the big smile forming on his face. 

Maybe they really were his friends after all, not just the best actors he’d ever met. 

“Okay, okay, I’ll stay. I just have one question. What’s the Other Side?”

Mr. Bailey pointed to the ladder. 

“Why don’t you go outside and see?”

As Clay left the library, he was almost blinded by sunlight. 

For the first time since he’d been on the island, the vog had completely lifted. 

There was not a cloud in the sky.

“The Other Side is not another place,” Mr. Bailey was saying behind him. 

“It’s another perspective on the place you already are.”

“You mean, it’s like the magic side of the world?” Clay asked, struggling to understand.

“You could call it that. To me, it’s the world of potential. The world where the answer is always yes instead of no.”

The lava moat was gone, if it had ever really been there, replaced by a ring of flowering bushes. 

The bees danced around the flowers, and then rose together in a waving ribbon formation. 

They circled Clay once, then flew off toward camp, as if leading the way for him.

“Think of a kid who gets dismissed as a problem—you know, a bad kid,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“If you expect nothing from him, you get nothing. But if you give him a chance, you never know what he’s got up his sleeve.”

“So every juvenile delinquent is secretly a magician?” Clay scoffed.

“Why not?” Mr. Bailey looked into Clay’s eyes.

For once, Clay was the first to look away.

In a daze, Clay almost walked right into the director’s teepee, Over There. 

It was sitting among the ruins of Price Palace. 

Or rather, hovering.

“Walk or ride?” asked Mr. Bailey, his eyes twinkling.

It took a second for Clay to understand that Mr. Bailey meant the teepee. 

“Uh, ride?”

Mr. Bailey bowed. 

“After you.”

Entering the teepee felt a little like entering an inflatable jumpy house. 

It was difficult to stand without wobbling. 

Clay was glad Mr. Bailey suggested he sit.

As far as Clay could tell, the teepee worked like a hot-air balloon. 

A magical, vanishing, cone-shaped hot-air balloon. 

The heat came from a camping stove, and Mr. Bailey steered with a system of ropes and pulleys.

Soon they were floating over Earth Ranch at a height that just cleared the tallest trees.

Almost everything looked the same; and yet everything was different.

There were some obvious things. 

The rainbow on the outside of Art Yurt rippled like water. 

The dome over the fire pit pulsed with an electric glow. 

The trees and bushes and even vegetables moved slowly back and forth and up and down, as if they were all joined in a long synchronized dance.

But it was the less obvious things that astonished Clay the most. 

Things that he didn’t see so much as feel. 

The more melodious singing of birds. 

The bluer blue of the lake and the greener green of the trees. 

The sense of warmth and well-being that radiated from the cabins and the yurts. 

The sparkling glow that seemed to pervade the very atmosphere of the camp. 

It was as if Clay were suddenly experiencing the world through the eyes and ears of a different species, perceiving colors and sounds outside the normal human spectrum.

“When did—was all this there?” Clay asked.

“The whole time, yes, right under your nose,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“You didn’t see it before because your mind wouldn’t accept it.” 

Mr. Bailey lowered the teepee slightly as they passed the blue barn. 

Clay could see Como at the fence, straining his neck to watch them.

“He wants to come with us,” Clay said.

“How do you know?”

Clay shrugged. 

“I guess I don’t.”

“Yes, you do,” said Mr. Bailey earnestly. 

“You’ve been communicating with that llama since you first got here. You just never believed it.… Sadly, he’s a bit too heavy to ride in the teepee with us.”

Clay waved at the llama. 

“Sorry, he says you’re too fat, amigo!”

As they started to float over the long crescent-shaped lake, a flock of blue parrots flew next to them, squawking loudly. 

For a moment, they were only a few feet away. 

Clay listened intently.

“I didn’t say you were going to suddenly turn into Dr. Dolittle,” Mr. Bailey teased.*

“Who?”

“I just meant it might take a while before you’re communicating with all the animals.”

“Oh,” said Clay, embarrassed. 

The parrots flew on.

“But there’s no harm trying,” said Mr. Bailey reassuringly.

They were past Egg Rock now, floating toward the waterfall.

Clay could hear its roar and feel its spray blowing in the wind. 

The waterfall looked less milky than he remembered, and more pearlescent; there seemed to be a rainbow of colors in every splash. 

Before they got too close, Mr. Bailey pulled a rope and the teepee started to ascend higher and higher, as if they were chasing some of the clouds of vog that had cleared away.

Clay thought perhaps Mr. Bailey planned to head for the volcano, but just then the ribbon of bees flew toward them and started circling the teepee.

Mr. Bailey frowned in concern. 

“I think they have a message from Buzz. I hope everything is okay.”

“Everything’s fine. Look—” 

Clay pointed.

The bees had changed formation to deliver their message: HURRY UP TIME 4 DINNER 

“They aren’t guard bees,” said Clay, laughing. 

“They’re spelling bees!”

It was just the kind of silly joke Max-Ernest would have loved. 

Someday, Clay hoped, he would get the chance to repeat it for his brother.

Eventually, of course, he would get that chance, but by then he would have many more jokes—and many more adventures—to tell me about.

THE END 

APPENDIX
GRAWLIX (pl. grawlixes)

Often found in the funnies section of a newspaper,* a grawlix is a series of typographical symbols employed in place of an offensive word or phrase.

Like this: $#%@!

The term grawlix was apparently invented by the cartoonist Mort Walker, who also defined a set of symbols, called symbolia, that you have no doubt seen in comic books and cartoons without having any idea they had names:

agitron: a wiggly line that means an object is shaking

briffit: a cloud of dust that means a character has left in a rush

emanata: lines emanating from a character’s head that means he or she is surprised

plewd: a drop of sweat that means a character is hot or stressed

squeans: asterisks that mean drunkenness or dizziness

waftarom: a wavy line that means something smells foul


ONE POTATO, TWO POTATO…

A potato robot is another matter, but it’s not difficult to make a potato battery. 

To turn a potato into a battery, you’ll need these items:
two full-size potatoes (it helps to label them 1 and 2)
two copper pennies or some copper wire
two galvanized nails
three pairs of alligator clips (each pair connected by wire)
one low-voltage device, such as an LED light or a clockone adult*

Insert a penny into potato number one, pressing the penny in as far as possible to maximize the surface area touching the potato. (The copper will make contact with the phosphoric acid in the potato juice. The penny is the anode.)

Take the galvanized nail and drive it into the potato, as far away from the penny as possible. (It is the cathode.)

Do the same with your second potato.

Remove the battery from your low-voltage device. Let’s say it’s a clock. (That way we can see how long this potato battery works.)

Attach one pair of alligator clips to the penny in potato number one and to the positive (+) terminal of the clock’s battery compartment.

Attach another pair of alligator clips to the nail in potato number two and to the negative (-) terminal of the clock’s battery compartment.

Use the third pair of alligator clips to connect the nail in potato number one to the penny in potato two.

You should now have power. Set that clock! Time’s wasting. It’s not made of potato juice, you know.

CLASSIC ROPE TRICK

Note: This trick works much better with real rope than with licorice. Here’s how to do the old cut-and-restore rope trick. A rope about four to five feet long works best. And you’ll need a pair of scissors.

After demonstrating to your audience that your rope is just rope, nothing tricky about it, your first step is to make a square knot very close to one of the
ends of the rope. 

When you’re done, your rope should look like a lasso—or, if you prefer, a letter P—with a loop at one end.

To make a square knot, lay your rope on a table. Take the left end and place it over the right, bring the (old) right back over the (old) left, then the (same old) left back over the (same old) right. (You should practice this a few times before attempting the knot in public; look in a book of knots if you’re confused.)

When your knot is complete and you have a nice loop at the end of your rope, show it to the crowd. Then grab your scissors and announce that you are going to cut the rope in half.

Then cut into the loop of rope. Try to cut very close to the knot and the short end of the rope. After you cut the rope, it will look as if you have two pieces of rope tied together with a knot. (In reality, it is just one piece of rope, and a knot that can be pulled off the end.)

Now is the time to say a magic word. Wave a wand. Blow pixie dust. Whatever inspires you.

Wrap your hand around the knot and pull it off the end of the rope. You should have a short piece of rope left in your hand—hide it.

Let the rest of the rope fall, or stretch it between your hands. Voilà! The rope is restored. You are a master magician.

Didn’t work the first time? Take heart—it never does. Keep trying.

A WAGER

It strikes me, as I bring this book to a close, that while I have discussed magic again and again, and even told you how to do a rope trick, I haven’t actually shown you any magic. 

A terrible oversight.

As a remedy, I propose to perform a magic trick for you right here, right now.

Don’t believe I can? 

Okay. 

Let’s make a bet.

Not for money. 

Just for fun. 

Although if you want to throw a few pieces of chocolate into the mix, that’s fine, too.

I bet I can make you obey my command, no matter how hard you resist, no matter where you are reading this book.

Are you prepared to be amazed by my magic powers?

Turn the page.…I win.

What? I wasn’t playing fair? 

That wasn’t the kind of magic you were thinking of?

Fine, let’s try again. 

This time, I promise, no funny stuff. 

You will follow my next command as soon as you read it. 

If you don’t, I will eat my top hat.

Ready?

You will find the command on the next page. 

(Don’t worry—it has nothing to do with turning pages.) 

Drumroll, please…

Here’s the command: Read this sentence.

Ta-da!

And there you have it, my friend. 

Magic. 

Right in front of your eyes.

It’s in every book if you know where to look.Of course, there are some books that are more magical than others.

And some authors.

Now let’s have some chocolate.

* LET’S JUST SAY EDITORS AREN’T THE GENTLE BOOKISH CREATURES PEOPLE THINK THEY ARE, AND LEAVE IT AT THAT.

* Q: WHAT DO YOU CALL A DENTIST WHO HANDS OUT LOLLIPOPS?

A: A VERY SHREWD BUSINESSMAN.

** WHY DO WE USE RANDOM TYPOGRAPHICAL SYMBOLS TO REPRESENT EXPLETIVES? HOW THE *&%*^#$ SHOULD I KNOW? I DO KNOW, HOWEVER, THAT THESE SYMBOLS ARE CALLED GRAWLIXES. (FOR MORE ON GRAWLIXES, SEE THE APPENDIX AT THE BACK OF THIS BOOK.)

* AS FOR A BOOK BEING WRITTEN ABOUT YOU, THAT ONLY HAPPENS IF YOU’RE UNLUCKY ENOUGH TO MEET SOMEONE LIKE ME. BEWARE.

* HEY, DON’T LOOK AT ME.… SHAKESPEARE SAID IT FIRST!

* AND NOT THAT IT WOULDN’T BE A FINE THING IF HE DID!

* CALIBAN CURSES CONSTANTLY IN THE TEMPEST. AT ONE POINT, THE MONSTER, WHO WAS TAUGHT TO SPEAK BY PROSPERO, TURNS TO HIS MASTER AND SAYS, YOU TAUGHT ME LANGUAGE, AND MY PROFIT ON IT IS, I KNOW HOW TO CURSE. THE RED PLAGUE RID YOU FOR LEARNING ME YOUR LANGUAGE! BASICALLY CURSING HIS LANGUAGE ARTS TEACHER FOR BEING HIS LANGUAGE ARTS TEACHER. WHICH WAS QUITE AMUSING FOR THE AUDIENCE AT CLAY’S SCHOOL, CONSIDERING MR. BAILEY, A REAL-LIFE LANGUAGE ARTS TEACHER, WAS PLAYING PROSPERO.

* THROUGHOUT THE TEMPEST, PROSPERO TOYS WITH THE PEOPLE AROUND HIM. HE MAKES THEM FALL IN LOVE, FIGHT WITH EACH OTHER, AND BELIEVE EACH OTHER DEAD, VERY MUCH AS IF HE’S THE WRITER OF THE PLAY. FOR THAT REASON, MANY BELIEVE PROSPERO’S GIVING UP MAGIC WAS SHAKESPEARE’S WAY OF SAYING I QUIT! INDEED, THE TEMPEST WAS THE LAST PLAY SHAKESPEARE EVER WROTE—AT LEAST, THE LAST ONE HE WROTE BY HIMSELF. I GUESS AFTER SHAKESPEARE GAVE UP MAGIC, HE STARTED NEEDING HELP WITH HIS HOMEWORK, JUST LIKE THE REST OF US.

* IF YOU KNOW THE NAME MAX-ERNEST, YOU KNOW TO KEEP QUIET ABOUT IT. IF THE NAME IS NEW TO YOU, YOU SHOULD KEEP QUIET ABOUT IT ANYWAY. I’M SORRY I CAN’T TELL YOU WHY. JUST TRUST ME ON THIS.

* HE NEVER TALKED ABOUT IT, BUT I’M GUESSING THE DOUBLE NAME REMINDED HIM TOO MUCH OF MAX-ERNEST’S. INCIDENTALLY, THEIR DOUBLE NAMES CAME FROM THEIR PARENTS’ INABILITY TO AGREE ON ANYTHING, A STORY I TELL IN A SERIES OF BOOKS I CAN’T TELL YOU ABOUT.

* IN MOST CASES, YOU WILL BE RELIEVED TO HEAR, ANIMAL HUSBANDRY HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH HUSBANDS OR WIVES OR ANY KIND OF MARRIAGE AT ALL. RATHER, IT IS THE BRANCH OF AGRICULTURE THAT DEALS WITH LIVESTOCK, SPECIFICALLY THE CARE AND BREEDING OF ANIMALS SUCH AS CATTLE, HOGS, SHEEP, AND HORSES.

* AUTHOR’S NOTE: DOGS
AS YOU MAY HAVE NOTICED, AUTHORS AND FILMMAKERS TEND TO CREATE HEROES WHO LOVE ANIMALS—IN PARTICULAR, DOGS. 
THE COMMON PERCEPTION IS THAT A CANINE COMPANION MAKES YOUR CHARACTER MORE SYMPATHETIC. 
FOR THIS REASON, I WAS RELUCTANT TO SHARE SOME OF THE ABOVE LINES OF DIALOGUE WITH YOU. 
THE TRUTH IS THAT CLAY HADN’T HAD MUCH EXPERIENCE WITH DOGS. 
ONCE, SHORTLY AFTER HIS BROTHER LEFT HOME, CLAY ASKED FOR A DOG. 
BUT HIS PARENTS GOT INTO SUCH A BIG FIGHT ABOUT WHAT KIND OF DOG TO GET, WHO WOULD GET IT, AND WHO WOULD CARE FOR IT THAT HE NEVER ASKED FOR A DOG—OR FOR ANYTHING ELSE—EVER AGAIN.
AS FOR ME, I HAVE A CAT.

* FANTASY ISLAND AND GILLIGAN’S ISLAND WERE BOTH POPULAR TELEVISION SERIES IN THE 1970S. 
ON GILLIGAN’S ISLAND THERE WERE SEVEN CASTAWAYS ON A DESERTED ISLAND. 
MIRACULOUSLY, THEY WERE ALWAYS CLEAN-SHAVEN AND PERFECTLY COIFFED. 
NONETHELESS, THEY WANTED NOTHING MORE THAN TO GET OFF THE ISLAND AND WERE ALWAYS HOPING FOR RESCUE. 
ON FANTASY ISLAND THE SITUATION WAS THE OPPOSITE. 
GUESTS VISITED FANTASY ISLAND FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD, PAYING ASTRONOMICAL FEES TO HAVE THEIR GREATEST WISHES COME TRUE.

* VOG IS A PORTMANTEAU (PRONOUNCED LIKE PORT MAN TOE): A WORD THAT IS MADE BY SQUEEZING TWO WORDS TOGETHER. 
IN THIS CASE VOLCANIC AND SMOG. 
FUNNILY ENOUGH, THE WORD SMOG IS ALSO A PORTMANTEAU. 
IT COMBINES THE WORDS SMOKE AND FOG. 
WHICH MAKES VOG A DOUBLE PORTMANTEAU. 
A PORTMANTEAU-TEAU, PERHAPS. 
VOG, BY THE WAY, IS A REAL WORD; I DIDN’T MAKE IT UP. 
IF YOU DON’T BELIEVE ME, ASK SOMEBODY WHO LIVES ON THE BIG ISLAND OF HAWAII. 
I PROMISE, THIS PERSON WILL HAVE A LOT TO SAY ABOUT VOG.

* MORDOR, OF COURSE, IS THE HOME OF THE DARK LORD SAURON IN J. R.  R. TOLKIEN’S LORD OF THE RINGS. 
CLAY MAY NOT HAVE BEEN FAMILIAR WITH FANTASY ISLAND, BUT HE HAD READ HIS FAIR SHARE OF FANTASY LITERATURE—BEFORE DECRYING ALL THINGS MAGICAL.

* THE LOVE BOAT, AS YOU PROBABLY GUESSED, IS ANOTHER TELEVISION SERIES FROM THE 1970S. 
IT CHRONICLES THE ADVENTURES OF A CRUISE SHIP CREW, AND AN EVER-CHANGING CAST OF PASSENGERS SEARCHING FOR LOVE.

* PERHAPS THE MOST FAMOUS LITERARY CASTAWAY IS ROBINSON CRUSOE, WHO LANDS ON THE ISLAND OF DESPAIR WITH ONLY A FEW ANIMALS FOR COMPANY. 
HE GOES ON TO BUILD A HOME, FIGHT CANNIBALS, AND INSPIRE COUNTLESS NOVELS AND MOVIES AND REALITY TELEVISION SHOWS. 
THINK OF WHAT A BRIGHT FUTURE LIES IN FRONT OF CLAY!

* MORAL OF THE STORY: NEVER RIDE A LLAMA. 
THEY’RE PACK ANIMALS, NOT HORSES. 
OTHER MORAL OF THE STORY: LLAMAS SPIT. 
IT’S NOT JUST A MYTH.

* CLAY NEEDN’T HAVE WORRIED; LLAMAS HAVE NO FRONT TEETH.

* ACTUALLY, THESE WERE NOT PEOPLE BUT LAVA TREES—TREES THAT HAD BEEN COVERED IN LAVA AND INCINERATED BY THE HEAT, LEAVING A HOLLOW LAVA MOLD IN THE SHAPE OF A TREE. 
A PHENOMENON REMARKABLY SIMILAR TO THE WAY MOLDS FOR BRONZE STATUES ARE TRADITIONALLY MADE, THE SO-CALLED LOST-WAX METHOD.

* AS CLAY WOULD LATER LEARN, THIS ROOTS-Y TYPE OF TREE IS KNOWN AS A BANYAN TREE. 
A BANYAN IS A FIG TREE THAT GROWS ON TOP OF ANOTHER TREE, ITS SEEDS GERMINATING IN THE CRACKS OF ITS HOST. 
THIS MAKES IT AN EPIPHYTE—A PLANT-ON-PLANT PARASITE.
A MONSTER TREE, BASICALLY.

* ACTUALLY, HIS FEARS WERE MORE GENERAL; I WAS FICTIONALIZING FOR EFFECT.

* I AM TAKING A BIT OF EDITORIAL LICENSE HERE. 
WHILE CLAY DID IN FACT SEE THE NEWSBOY CAP AND DUNGAREES, HE WOULD HAVE CALLED THEM BY THEIR MORE FAMILIAR, CONTEMPORARY NAMES: I.E., HAT AND JEANS. 
I USED THE MORE OLD-FASHIONED WORDS TO GIVE YOU A SENSE OF THE OLD-FASHIONED EFFECT OF THE OUTFIT. 
ORIGINALLY, INSTEAD OF SUSPENDERS, I HAD USED THE RATHER ANTIQUATED TERM BRACES, BUT I DECIDED THAT THAT WAS GOING A STEP TOO FAR. 
YOU MIGHT HAVE GOTTEN CONFUSED AND THOUGHT I MEANT THE KIND OF BRACES YOU WEAR ON YOUR TEETH.

* LEIRA HAPPENS TO BE THE NAME OF A GODDESS IN THAT OLD, FAMOUSLY NERDY ROLE-PLAYING GAME DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. 
I ASSUME THIS IS WHAT SHE WAS REFERRING TO WHEN SHE SAID HER PARENTS WERE NERDS, BUT I MAY BE WRONG.

* APIAN, AS YOU MAY HAVE GATHERED FROM CONTEXT CLUES, DOES NOT MEAN APE-LIKE BUT BEE-LIKE.
PERSONALLY, I HAD NO CONTEXT CLUES TO HELP ME WHEN I WAS RACKING MY BRAIN FOR THE WORD. 
IT TOOK ME THREE CHOCOLATE-DIPPED HONEYCOMB BARS, TWO HOURS OF CHASING BEES, AND ONE LONG NAP BEFORE IT CAME TO ME IN A FLASH. 
STILL, A MUCH BETTER OUTCOME THAN WHEN I TRIED TO REMEMBER THE WORD AVIAN…

* I’M NOT SURE CLAY UNDERSTOOD AT THE TIME, BUT I BELIEVE BUZZ WAS THINKING HERE NOT OF DRONE HELICOPTERS BUT RATHER OF THE ORIGINAL DRONES: THAT IS, MALE BEES.

* I USE THE WORD LICORICE LOOSELY, OF COURSE. 
IN REALITY, THERE IS NO LICORICE IN RED LICORICE, JUST HIGH-FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP HARDENED TO A WAXY TEXTURE AND COLORED WITH TOXIC DYES. 
IN MY NOT-SO-HUMBLE OPINION, RED LICORICE IS THE ONLY THING WORSE THAN WHITE CHOCOLATE. 
REPEAT AFTER ME: CHOCOLATE, BROWN. LICORICE, BLACK.
ANYTHING ELSE I’M TAKING BACK!

* WHEN I WAS YOUNG, I THOUGHT A BOOKIE WAS SOMEBODY WHO READ A LOT OF BOOKS—A BOOKWORM—WHICH IS WHAT I WAS. 
MY SECOND GUESS WAS THAT A BOOKIE WAS AN AFFECTIONATE TERM FOR A FAVORITE BOOK—LIKE A BLANKIE—AS IN, THAT BOY PSEUDONYMOUS, HE NEVER LETS HIS LITTLE BOOKIE OUT OF HIS HAND. 
I NEVER GUESSED THAT A BOOKIE WAS SOMEBODY THROUGH WHOM PEOPLE MAKE BETS ON HORSE RACES AND BALL GAMES.

* ANARCHISM IS A POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY THAT ADVOCATES “ANTI-AUTHORITARIAN STATELESS SYSTEMS”—SORT OF LIKE CLASSROOMS WITHOUT TEACHERS OR RULES. 
IT IS THE PREFERRED SCHOOL OF THOUGHT FOR REBELLIOUS TEENAGERS EVERYWHERE.

* AS IT HAPPENS, THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE WHO CHOOSE TO EAT ONLY RAW FOOD, EVEN WHEN COOKED FOOD IS AVAILABLE. 
THE PRACTICE IS KNOWN AS RAW FOODISM, OR SIMPLY RAWISM.

* I WOULD EXPLAIN HOW TO START A FIRE USING THE DRILL METHOD, BUT I’M AFRAID NO GOOD WOULD COME OF IT: EITHER YOU WOULD FAIL TO START A FIRE OR, WORSE, YOU WOULD SUCCEED IN STARTING A FIRE.

* THIS RECIPE, OF COURSE, WAS FOR THE FABLED PHILOSOPHER’S STONE, A SUBSTANCE BELIEVED NOT ONLY TO TURN LEAD INTO GOLD BUT TO MAKE PEOPLE IMMORTAL.

* IF, LIKE CLAY, YOU HAVE NEVER MADE A POTATO BATTERY, YOU WILL FIND INSTRUCTIONS IN THE APPENDIX.

* NOW HERE’S SOME INFORMATION THAT IS SURE TO COME IN HANDY: A BUNCH OF BANANAS IS CALLED A “HAND,” THE WORD BANANA ITSELF COMING FROM AN ARAB WORD FOR FINGER, BANAN. WHILE WE’RE TALKING BANANOLOGY (WHAT, THAT’S NOT A WORD?), I SHOULD NOTE THAT THE CORRECT TERM FOR A BUNCH OF BANANA TREES IS NOT BANANA GROVE BUT BANANA PLANTATION. 
STILL, GROVE IS THE WORD THAT CLAY AND OTHERS AT EARTH RANCH USED, AND IT’S THE WORD I’M GOING TO USE IN THIS BOOK.

* WORD GAMES? I KNOW CLAY’S BROTHER AS WELL AS I KNOW MYSELF, AND HIS SPECIALTY IS NOT WORD GAMES; IT’S BIRD NAMES.

* JUST TO BE CLEAR, I AM EXPRESSING CLAY’S OPINION HERE, NOT MY OWN.

* THE DEWEY DECIMAL IS THE WORLD’S MOST WIDELY USED LIBRARY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM. 
(TRY TO NAME ANOTHER ONE—I DARE YOU.) 
FIRST PUBLISHED IN 1876, IT WAS DEVELOPED BY LIBRARIAN MELVIL DEWEY. 
(NOT TO BE CONFUSED WITH JOHN DEWEY, THE PROGRESSIVE EDUCATOR, OR EVEN DEWEY OF THE TV SHOW MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE. 
AND DEFINITELY NOT TO BE CONFUSED WITH THE ANIMATED DUCK OF THE TRIO HUEY, DEWEY, AND LOUIE.) 
THE DEWEY DECIMAL SYSTEM USES THREE-DIGIT NUMERALS TO REPRESENT TEN MAIN CLASSES OF SUBJECTS, WITH DECIMALS EXPANDING TO REPRESENT MORE DETAIL.
WHILE THE SYSTEM CONTINUALLY EVOLVES, SOME SPOTS REMAIN UNASSIGNED. OR SO THEY SAY. 
WE CAN ONLY IMAGINE WHAT TERRIBLE SECRETS ARE PLACED IN THOSE UNASSIGNED SPOTS. 
MY FAVORITE DECIMAL: 000—IT STANDS FOR “GENERALITIES.” 
SECOND-FAVORITE: 135—“DREAMS AND MYSTERIES.”

* COINCIDENTALLY OR NOT, CITIZEN KANE, THE FILM CLASSIC BY ORSON WELLES, IS ABOUT A WEALTHY MAN, NOT UNLIKE RANDOLPH PRICE, WHO COLLECTS TREASURES FROM AROUND THE WORLD, ONLY TO DRIVE HIMSELF TO DESPAIR WHILE BUILDING A PALACE TO HOUSE THEM.

* IN THE PAST, CLAY HAD BEEN AN AVID READER, ESPECIALLY OF FANTASY BOOKS. 
BUT AT A CERTAIN POINT HE DECIDED FANTASY BOOKS WERE SILLY AND FAKE—YES, THIS WAS AT THE SAME TIME HE DECIDED MAGIC WAS SILLY AND FAKE—AND HE HAD READ FAR FEWER BOOKS SINCE. 
MAYBE I SHOULDN’T SPEAK FOR HIM, BUT I THINK HE MISSED READING MORE THAN HE REALIZED.

* A GRIMOIRE IS A MAGICAL TEXTBOOK. 
USUALLY MANUALS ON HOW TO CREATE MAGICAL OBJECTS AND PERFORM SPELLS, THEY ARE ALSO SAID TO BE IMBUED WITH MAGIC THEMSELVES. 
CURIOUSLY, THE WORD GRIMOIRE IS ETYMOLOGICALLY RELATED TO THE WORD GRAMMAR. 
SO THE NEXT TIME YOUR LANGUAGE ARTS TEACHER OFFERS TO GIVE YOU A GRAMMAR LESSON, DON’T BE SO QUICK TO SAY NO; A COVERT MAGIC LESSON MAY FOLLOW.

* ACTUALLY, IT’S THE IMPROBABLE THAT MUST BE TRUE, NOT THE IMPOSSIBLE. 
IN THE SIGN OF FOUR, SHERLOCK HOLMES QUOTES HIMSELF FOR WATSON’S EDIFICATION: “HOW OFTEN HAVE I SAID TO YOU THAT WHEN YOU HAVE ELIMINATED THE IMPOSSIBLE, WHATEVER REMAINS, HOWEVER IMPROBABLE, MUST BE THE TRUTH?”

* IF YOU CARE TO TRY THIS TRICK YOURSELF, THERE ARE INSTRUCTIONS IN THE APPENDIX. 
DON’T TELL ANYONE, BUT IT’S NOT TERRIBLY DIFFICULT.

* THESE BABY BLOCKS ARE MORE COMMONLY KNOWN AS MOVABLE TYPE, WHICH IS EXACTLY WHAT IT SOUNDS LIKE: A SYSTEM OF MOVABLE (AND LUCKILY REMOVABLE—HELPS TO KEEP THINGS SECRET) PIECES THAT ARE USED IN PRINTING. 
THE INVENTION OF MOVABLE TYPE MADE PRODUCING PREVIOUSLY WRITTEN BOOKS INFINITELY EASIER. 
ALAS, THERE IS MORE TO WRITING A BOOK THAN MOVING LETTERS AROUND. 
ONE ALSO HAS TO CHOOSE THE WORDS THAT THE LETTERS CREATE; THAT’S THE PART THAT ALWAYS STUMPS ME.

* THE AREA WAS CALLED PLUME CANYON, YOU WILL OBSERVE, NOT BECAUSE IT WAS FULL OF BIRD FEATHERS BUT BECAUSE OF THE MANY PLUMES OF SMOKE.

* KWAN IS CORRECT. 
ESCAPED PIGS, WHETHER RAISED FOR FOOD OR AS “PETS,” WILL REVERT TO A WILD STATE IN A MATTER OF MONTHS. 
THAT DOESN’T MEAN THAT ONLY THEIR DESCENDANTS GROW UP WILD; THE ESCAPEE ITSELF BEGINS TO GROW HAIR AND TUSKS. AND WATCH OUT, BECAUSE FERAL PIGS NOT ONLY HAVE RAZOR-SHARP TUSKS BUT ALSO RUN FAST (THIRTY MILES PER HOUR!), SWIM WELL, HAVE KEEN HEARING AND SENSE OF SMELL—AND THEY’LL EAT ALMOST ANYTHING.

* INSPIRED BY ANTONIO, SEBASTIAN PLOTS TO KILL HIS OLDER BROTHER, ALONSO, THE KING OF NAPLES, JUST AS ANTONIO HAS PLOTTED AGAINST HIS OLDER BROTHER, PROSPERO, THE DUKE OF MILAN. 
IN THE END, OF COURSE, THEIR PLOTS FAIL. 
I MUST ADMIT, YOUNGER BROTHERS DO NOT COME OFF VERY WELL IN THE TEMPEST.

* MOOD RINGS WERE A BIG FAD IN THE 1970S, AN ERA WHEN A PERSON’S FEELINGS WERE CONSIDERED OF PARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE. 
SUPPOSEDLY, THE RINGS CHANGED COLOR ACCORDING TO THE EMOTIONS OF THE WEARER. 
IN REALITY, OF COURSE, THEY MOSTLY MEASURED HOW SWEATY YOUR FINGER WAS.

* I’M SORRY I CAN’T TELL YOU THE WORD CLAY USED, OR EVEN WHAT LANGUAGE IT WAS. 
(HINT: IT’S NOT A LANGUAGE CURRENTLY SPOKEN ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD.) 
THIS IS PARTLY BECAUSE I DON’T WANT YOU TO TRY WALKING ON LAVA. 
IF THE SPELL DIDN’T WORK, YOU WOULD BE BURNED AND I WOULD FEEL BAD.
WORSE, IF THE SPELL WORKED, AS IT VERY WELL MIGHT—WELL, I CAN’T IMAGINE WHAT WOULD HAPPEN THEN.

* DR. DOLITTLE IS THE TITLE CHARACTER IN A CHILDREN’S BOOK SERIES NOW ALMOST ONE HUNDRED YEARS OLD. 
(AND HERE I THOUGHT I INVENTED THE IDEA!) 
IN LIEU OF HUMAN PATIENTS, HE TREATS ANIMALS, TO WHICH HE SPEAKS IN ODD ANIMAL LANGUAGES. 
OTHER CHARACTERS INCLUDE THE PUSHMI-PULLYU, A TWO-HEADED GAZELLE-UNICORN, AND GUB-GUB, A PIG WHO IS THE PURPORTED AUTHOR OF MY FAVORITE BOOK IN THE DOLITTLE SERIES, GUB-GUB’S BOOK, AN ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF FOOD.

* NEWSPAPERS ARE PRINTED PUBLICATIONS (USUALLY ISSUED DAILY OR WEEKLY) CONSISTING OF FOLDED UNSTAPLED PAPER SHEETS AND CONTAINING NEWS, FEATURE ARTICLES, ADVERTISEMENTS, AND SO ON. 
THEY WERE ONCE VERY COMMON.

* FOR THE SAKE OF APPEARANCES, IT’S BEST TO HAVE AN ADULT “SUPERVISOR” AROUND WHILE PERFORMING THIS EXPERIMENT (ALSO WHILE PERFORMING THE ROPE TRICK BELOW). 
NATURALLY, I AM NOT SUGGESTING THAT THE ADULT WILL DO ANY REAL SUPERVISING, ONLY THAT SHE OR HE WILL PROVIDE COVER FOR YOU. 
WITH AN ADULT AROUND, PEOPLE ARE MORE LIKELY TO ASSUME YOUR INTENTIONS ARE INNOCENT. 
SILLY THEM.

Bad Luck
By Pseudonymous Bosch


FOR RAPHAEL SIMON (WHOSE NAME I KEEP FORGETTING) 

… but it is one thing to read about dragons and another to meet them.
—URSULA K. LE GUIN, A WIZARD OF EARTHSEA 

And might I add, it is one thing to meet dragons and another to live to write about them.
—PB 

CHAPTER ONE MUSTER

The Imperial Conquest had five swimming pools, four gyms, a three-story waterslide, a two-lane bowling alley, an outdoor movie theater, a giant climbing wall, a miniature golf course, an ice-cream parlor, a pizza parlor, a sushi bar, a taco stand, a twenty-four-hour arcade, an eighteen-and-under dance club, an eighteen-and-over casino (that was a little lax about its age limit), a full-service spa, and a multi-floor luxury shopping mall, but so far the thing Brett liked best about this gigantic cruise ship was the Jell-O parfait at the Lido Deck Snack Shack.

Jell-O and whipped cream. 

It was the perfect combination.

Sweet and tangy. 

Rich and soft. 

He couldn’t believe it had taken all twelve long years of his life to discover it.

Eating slowly to make his parfait last, Brett waded through the sea of sunbathers. 

He was the only person around who was fully clothed, not to mention wearing a bow tie—sometime in the sixth grade, Brett had decided that bow ties would be his “signature accessory”—and as usual he got some funny looks.

A sunburned boy pointed at him. 

“Hey, penguin, wrong cruise—North Pole is the other way.”

“You mean South Pole,” Brett replied automatically. 

“No penguins in the North. Just… elves.”

And next time, try a higher SPF, he thought. 

Lobster.

A woman squinted at him from behind her sunglasses. 

“Are you my waiter? Where’s my drink?”

“I don’t know,” said Brett.

“Maybe you drank it?”

By the way, I’m not your waiter; my dad owns this ship, he almost added. 

But she probably wouldn’t have believed him anyway.

Even though it happened to be true.

All he wanted to do was return to his stateroom and eat his parfait in peace. 

Was that too much to ask? 

Well, maybe just one more bite before he—
BEEP! BEEP! BEEP!

He almost choked when the alarm sounded. 

Three high-pitched beeps so loud they made his head hurt.

Brett looked down in dismay—a dribble of green Jell-O had landed on his bow tie. 

He could barely see over his chin, but he wiped it away as best he could.

“This is your captain speaking,” said a woman over the ship’s intercom. 

Her voice had a distinctive accent—Australian, it sounded to Brett. 

A good sign, he thought. 

(Australia was the home of the Great Barrier Reef, and if she could navigate the world’s biggest coral reef, she could probably navigate anywhere.*) 

“Please report to your assigned muster room immediately. This is only a drill.…”

Brett’s muster room, the Shooting Stars Nightclub and Casino, was five floors down. 

As Brett entered, still clutching his parfait glass, a uniformed crew member stood onstage, trying to entertain everyone with a less-than-successful rendition of Michael Jackson’s “Beat It.”

The crowd booed happily.

“Oh, so you guys think you can do better, huh?” said the crew member, pretending to be insulted. 

“Well, our karaoke contest is tomorrow night, right after the magic show!”

He nodded to the poster behind him. 

It showed a big pair of bunny ears sticking out of a top hat:

NOW YOU SEE HIM…
NOW YOU DON’T!
An Evening of Magic and Mystery

Another crew member, whose badge read MIGUEL, PHILIPPINES, scanned Brett’s cruise ID card, and Brett saw his own image flash across a small video screen, along with the words VIP—ALL ACCESS.

Miguel looked down at the husky, overdressed twelve-year-old in front of him. 

If he was suspicious of Brett’s VIP status, he didn’t say anything about it.

“I was wondering, Miguel,” said Brett. 

“Why do they call this a muster room? Is it because you have to muster your courage when the ship is sinking?”

“Sorry, sir. I have no idea.”

Miguel didn’t look sorry. 

In fact, he looked irritated. 

Brett often had this effect on people. 

He wasn’t sure why.

“Well, if I were you, I would look it up,” Brett said helpfully. 

“Mustering is your job, after all.”*

Before Brett could find a place to sit, Brett senior walked over with his smiling young fiancée, Amber, in tow.

“Junior! What took you so long?” he bellowed loudly enough to cause people to turn. 

“Good thing there isn’t a real emergency!”

Brett cringed in embarrassment. 

It looked as though his father had come straight from the pool; he was wearing an open shirt and one of his just-a-little-too-small bathing suits. 

A gold chain hung from his neck, snagging on his hairy chest. 

At his side, the always-sunny Amber was dressed in sparkly yellow workout clothing. 

It seemed to Brett that she had an entire rainbow’s worth of yoga pants. 

Both his father and Amber wore life vests around their necks.

“Where’s your vest? Never mind—” Brett’s father turned to Amber, who was busy applying strawberry lip balm to her already balmy lips. 

“Can you grab him one, princess?”

“Of course, my knight.”

My knight…? 

That was even worse than princess, Brett thought. 

Couldn’t they keep their pet names private?

Amber picked up a vest from a pile and handed it to Brett. 

“Here, honey.”

“Thanks, orange is my favorite color,” he said, unable to keep the sarcasm out of his voice. 

Amber had never been anything but nice to him—almost too nice—and yet he couldn’t bring himself to like her.

Brett’s father eyed the parfait glass in his hand. 

“Didn’t you already have one of those Jell-O things this morning?”

“So? They’re free.”

“That’s not the point. You haven’t even had lunch yet. No wonder—” 

His father stopped himself before finishing his sentence.

“No wonder what?” 

Go on, thought Brett. 

Say it.

“Do you want to be like all the other overweight losers on this ship?” said his father, lowering his voice. 

He smiled broadly for the benefit of their fellow passengers.

“If that’s how you feel, why did you buy this ship in the first place?” asked Brett, stung.

His father shrugged. 

“I like big things.”

“Yeah, except for me,” said Brett under his breath.

Brett senior’s scalp reddened underneath his new hair plugs. 

“It doesn’t matter whether I like you,” he said, struggling to control his anger. 

“It only matters whether you like you.”

Amber put one soothing hand on Brett’s shoulder and one on his father’s.

“All your father is saying is that you need to take care of yourself,” she cooed to Brett in her unnervingly sweet voice. 

“There are so many great exercise classes on the ship.… Pilates… Jazz-aerobics… Why don’t you try one? Or at least go for a swim. Your father says you used to be a very strong swimmer.”

“Yeah. Emphasis on used to be.” 

Brett hadn’t voluntarily taken his shirt off in public since he was ten. 

(Or, to be more exact, since the day Mitch Poll had started making fun of Brett’s “boy boobs” at their class swim party.)

Mercifully, a neighboring passenger shushed them. 

A diagram of the ship was being projected onto a screen above the stage. 

Red circles were drawn around the lifeboats.

“In the unlikely event of an evacuation, you will be escorted to a tender. Do not attempt to board without a crew member.…” *

The emergency training session had begun.

Brett’s father was always buying things: oil rigs, construction companies, sports teams. 

Still, Brett had been a little surprised when his father announced that he had bought a cruise line. 

As far as Brett could remember, his father had never expressed much interest in sea vessels or even the sea itself, outside of extracting oil from underneath it.

Why buy an entire fleet of cruise ships?

But what had really surprised Brett was that his father wanted to take him on a cruise. 

In the old days, when his mother was still alive, they’d traveled all the time, but his father rarely took Brett away for a weekend anymore, never mind a weeklong vacation. 

Brett now suspected Amber’s influence. 

She might not care much about Brett one way or the other, but at least she had some idea about the way families were supposed to behave.

Unlike his father.

He hates me, Brett thought. 

He really hates me.

His father had practically admitted it to his face.

After quitting the muster room, Brett found himself back on the Lido Deck. 

Another parfait. 

It was the only answer to the terrible pit that had opened in his stomach. 

But when he reached the Snack Shack, it was closed. 

The dessert case was empty.

Now, this is an emergency, he thought.

As Brett considered his options—pizza? gelato? those twisty croissant-y things in the Tahiti Dining Room?—he noticed an open door next to the café. 

Inside was a gleaming stainless-steel world of counters and refrigerators and ovens and heat lamps. 

Standing in a corner, beckoning to Brett like a diamond necklace to a jewel thief, was a rolling rack stacked with Jell-O parfaits. 

Dozens of them. 

In every color. 

Each topped with a bright red maraschino cherry.

Glancing briefly at the STAFF ONLY sign, he walked straight through the door. 

The parfaits were free anyway, he reasoned. 

And if he got caught, well, his father owned the ship. 

Basically, he was stealing from himself.

He was in the middle of his second parfait—fourth if you counted the two he’d eaten earlier in the day—when a muffled noise caught his attention. 

It sounded like cars caught in traffic, honking and revving their motors, and it came from behind a steel door at the far end of the kitchen.

Above the door: a blinking red light and the words ACCESS RESTRICTED.

Ordinarily, Brett was a cautious fellow. 

True, he often spoke without thinking. 

He was especially bad at holding his tongue when he was being bullied (a twice-or thrice-daily occurrence). 

But when it came to serious risk taking, let’s just say he preferred the comforts of a couch and a touch-screen device. 

Today was different. 

Maybe it was his anger at his father, maybe the Jell-O in his bloodstream, or maybe all that red dye in the cherries; whatever the reason, Brett felt bold and reckless. 

He inserted his all-access ID card into the slot.

Stepping through the door, he found himself at the top of a stairwell. 

At the bottom was an enormous storage area—a warehouse space that would have seemed large enough on land, let alone at sea—filled with boxes and crates of all shapes and sizes.

As soon as Brett walked in, he identified the source of the traffic sounds: not cars but animals. 

Live animals. 

Goats. 

Sheep. 

Pigs.

Chickens. 

Even a few cows. 

All squeezed into pens. 

It looked as if an entire farmyard had been airlifted onto the ship.

It smelled like that, too.

Why animals on a cruise? 

For a petting zoo? 

Maybe a tableau vivant of Noah’s Ark? * 

Brett didn’t know anything about farming, but the animals sure didn’t look happy.

Behind them sat a rusted steel shipping container the size of a city bus, with airholes drilled into its sides. 

Next to the shipping container was a rack of fire extinguishers, as well as a locked glass case filled with weapons—stun guns, spearguns, rifles—enough to take down a blue whale or a herd of elephants.

No, probably not a petting zoo.

Suddenly, he heard people entering the room, arguing.

Trying not to panic, Brett stepped behind the shipping container and listened. 

A woman was complaining that the ship’s crew was unhappy about having live animals in the hold. 

“They’re smelly and only encourage the vermin!” 

Brett recognized her voice from the intercom.

“Not your business, lady,” a man growled. 

“This space is off-limits to everyone except Mr. Perry and the staff of Operation St. George.”

Brett swallowed. 

Mr. Perry was his father, Brett senior. 

The man who was speaking sounded like Mack, the ex-boxer who worked as his father’s bodyguard and chauffeur. 

Brett peeked around the corner: Sure enough, Mack was there, and Brett’s father, too. 

(Thankfully, his father was now wearing a Hawaiian shirt and tan pants. 

Not a great look, but Brett preferred it to the bathing suit.) 

Walking with them was a tall woman in uniform.

“I’m the captain of this ship, you moron,” she said, incensed. 

“No space is off-limits to me!”

“And I’m the owner of this ship,” Brett’s father reminded her. 

“Your employer.”

“I am still responsible for two thousand passengers. Never mind a thousand crew members. What is this ‘Operation St.  George’?”

Brett stepped back out of view. 

He couldn’t risk his father seeing him now. 

He’d had more than enough parental disapproval for one day. 

The container door was open. 

He slipped inside—What the…?

Bolted to the floor were a half dozen iron chains attached to an equal number of manacles. 

The chains looked so heavy and barbaric that at first Brett was sure they were fake. 

He thought of the magic show that was supposed to take place the following night. 

Could the chains be props for a Houdini-style escape routine? 

Perhaps the entire container was a magician’s set—a cage for a stage.

Maybe the farm animals were part of the show, too?

Then Brett spied the massive steel muzzle on the floor.

Leaning in for a closer look, he accidentally brushed against one of the chains. 

It clanged loudly against the side of the container.

Oops.

He held his breath. 

One… two… 

Silently, he counted to himself, as if he were waiting for a bomb to explode. 

Three… four… 

Had he averted discovery?

Then—
“Brett!”

His father stared at him from the doorway, more furious than surprised.

“Um, hello,” said Brett numbly.

The captain stepped up from behind Brett’s father. 

“What in the world…?” 

Horrified, she stared not at Brett but at the contraption in front of his feet.

Brett glanced down again. 

The muzzle was a brutal piece of hardware, all right, made of steel thick enough to hold the biggest, strongest animal on earth. 

On the inside were spikes so long and so sharp, they would keep King Kong from opening his jaws.

This cage he’d stumbled into—it wasn’t meant for a magician.

It was meant for a monster. 

CHAPTER TWO

CAPTURE THE VOG

If you’ve ever climbed a volcano, or even seen a picture of a volcano, you may have noticed the cloudy haze lingering in the nearby air. 

This haze is called vog (as in volcanic smog). 

Clay had been living under its spell for over six weeks, and still he couldn’t get used to it.

Most mornings, and almost every evening, the fog rolled in from the ocean to meet the smoke rising from Mount Forge, Price Island’s far-too-active (some might say hyperactive) volcano. 

Stirred together like ingredients in a mad laboratory experiment, the fog and smoke became the billowing clouds of vog that stung Clay’s eyes and seared his throat. 

Of course, sometimes the vog didn’t billow; it just crept around the island, like an invisible predator, and made him feel tired and irritable without his knowing why. 

And then there were the times, like today, when Mount Forge acted up without warning, and all of a sudden the entire island was covered in a layer of vog so thick it was like someone had not only turned off the lights but turned off the gravity as well, giving him the sense of being suspended in a strange gray void.

Tucked away in a narrow valley, Clay’s summer camp, Earth Ranch, usually escaped the worst of the vog, but that morning two cabinfuls of kids had left camp to spend the day at Bamboo Bay—a smallish U-shaped beach that backed up against a bamboo forest on one side and Mount Forge on the other. 

Unfortunately, as soon as they reached the beach, Mount Forge started belching smoke and vomiting lava as if the earth itself were suffering a terrible case of gastroenteritis. 

There was little danger of lava making it all the way down to the ocean, but, clearly, there would be no surfing or even any sunning today.

Flint, the junior counselor who was leading the beach expedition, suggested that the campers make the best of the bad weather by playing a game of Capture the Flag.

“We can call it Capture the Vog—it’ll be awesome!”

He broke off a stick of bamboo. 

Then he looked up at the sky and released a tall plume of fire from his mouth, like a fire-breather at a carnival. 

All around him, the vog glowed orange and yellow, as if there’d been another volcanic eruption. 

When the fire subsided, a small flame burned at the end of the stick.

It was an impressive performance, made more so by the careless style of the performer. 

Flint had that cool-guy way of making tough things look easy.

As the campers applauded, he dragged his new torch across the beach, leaving a line of fire flickering in the black volcanic sand. 

A stranger might have guessed that he’d prepared ahead of time by pouring a line of gasoline, but his companions knew better. 

Flint had a special gift for pyrotechnics. 

He didn’t need gas to light a fire; he needed only to snap his fingers.

In fact, many of the campers had talents like his, even if their skills were less advanced and their tricks less spectacular. 

Disguised as an outdoor survival camp for juvenile delinquents, Earth Ranch was, secretly, a magic camp for young adepts—a camp that depended on its remote location and ever-present vog for protection.

“Okay, Frogs, everything on this side of the line is yours,” Flint declared, the flames turning his blue eyes gold. 

“Worms, the other side is yours.” 

The Frogs were the younger girls, who resided in the cabin known as the Pond. 

The Worms were the younger boys, who resided in Earth Cabin—Clay’s cabin. 

“Winners get to eat the losers’ s’mores tonight. And don’t forget—camp rules, everybody!”

“Yeah, except for you, right?” Clay scoffed.

Flint glared at him. 

“What did you say, Worm?”

Clay hid his smile. “Nothing!”

Camp rules meant No Magic.

The kids at Earth Ranch were forbidden from doing magic without adult supervision, but for some reason the rule never seemed to apply to Flint, despite his being only fifteen and not yet a full counselor. 

Certainly, it hadn’t stopped him from making Clay’s bunk smoke as if it were on fire when he passed by the previous night. 

Nor had it stopped him from making Clay’s toothbrush start to melt that morning when he saw Clay brushing his teeth.

Someday, Clay had vowed, he would get Flint back.

Just… maybe not today.

“You have one minute to huddle, and then the game begins,” Flint declared as he started walking down the beach. 

“I’ll be back in ten to see the bloodbath!”

He started walking down the beach, alone.

The younger campers exchanged knowing glances. 

Flint had been disappearing a lot lately. 

The rumor was that he’d been practicing a new type of magic in secret. 

Nobody knew what this type of magic was, but it was undoubtedly difficult—and dangerous.

I don’t know whether you’ve ever played Capture the Flag, but like most so-called recreational activities, it can quickly become very competitive. * 

In their pregame huddle, Clay’s cabinmates, the Worms, strategized like they were plotting the crime of the century. 

No surprise, perhaps, given that they were criminals—or, rather, “struggling youth,” as Earth Ranch called them in its glossy brochure.** 

Also, of course, they were magicians-in-training, but at Earth Ranch the campers tended to confuse crime with magic. 

Both things, after all, involved breaking laws—the one the laws of the land, the other the laws of nature.

Kwan, a Worm with a big, slick, swooping hairdo and a big, slick, swooping ego to match, elected himself team captain. 

He pointed toward a boy with a gold-tipped Afro and started giving orders. 

“Jonah, you’re on recon. Scope out the opposition. When the target is vulnerable, give a sign.”

Jonah nodded almost imperceptibly. 

Among his peers he was known to have a special knack for seeing things that others couldn’t, whether in the future or in the dark. 

(It was an enviable skill because, unlike some other forms of magic, it could be practiced without attracting a counselor’s attention.)

Kwan turned to a second colorfully coiffed boy—this one with a green Mohawk. 

“Pablo, mi amigo, your job is to create a diversion.”

Pablo furrowed his brow, considering.

“Explosives?”

“Tempting,” admitted Kwan. 

“But I’m thinking robotics. We could use another player on the team, even if it’s not human.”

“An automaton? But Flint said camp rules…” 

Pablo protested halfheartedly, even though his friends could see the gleam in his eye.

“Do you see any counselors?” said Kwan.

Pablo grinned. 

“How much time do I have?”

“About three minutes. Plenty for a man of your genius.”

Kwan sounded sarcastic, but it was true: Pablo had a fantastic ability to make robotic creatures—automatons—from unlikely materials, in record time. 

Indeed, Pablo was already picking up stray bamboo sticks and strings of seaweed and manipulating them as if they were steel rods and copper wires.

“So here’s the plan, my brother Worms,” Kwan continued. 

“While Pablo’s robo-man is distracting the enemy, I will secure the target. Then I will make a big show of passing off the flag to Pablo.…”

Seemingly out of nowhere, a playing card appeared in Kwan’s hand. 

He tossed it to Pablo, but by the time Pablo grabbed for it, the card had vanished into the air.

“But really, secretly, I will pass it off to Jonah, who will take it home and win those sweet, sweet s’mores for us.…”

Jonah looked down. 

The card was in his hand. 

A joker. 

He shook his head.

“Show-off.”

The others laughed.

Kwan was a master of legerdemain and an expert swindler; his cabinmates knew better than to engage him in a serious game of poker or even a friendly game of gin rummy. * 

If anybody could steal a flag and then pass it off to someone else a second later, Kwan could.

“Anything I can do?” asked Clay, as casually as he could. 

(He didn’t want to come off like the last kid picked in a game of kickball, even if he felt a little bit that way.)

“I know I’ve never robbed a bank like the rest of you reprobates—but I think I know how to play Capture the Flag.”

“What are you talking about, dude? You’re our MVP!” 

Kwan patted Clay on the head. 

“You protect our flag, and, uh, tag any girl who crosses onto our side and take her to jail, which is, um, that boulder over there.” 

Kwan, who fancied himself a ladies’ man, wiggled his eyebrows mischievously. 

“See, you have the best job in the game—guarding the girls!”

Clay laughed and shook his head. 

“You’re a Neanderthal.

“So where’s our flag, anyway?” he asked.

“Here—” Kwan pulled a long white tube sock off his foot and held it up. 

The bottom was dirty and moist, and the surrounding air suddenly swirled with eau de toe.

Clay recoiled. 

“Ugh! Dude, that’s gross.”

“Exactly,” said Kwan, laughing. 

“It’s like a protection spell—nobody will want to touch it!” 

He wagged the sock in front of Clay’s face, and Clay dove away.

They all did.

In a matter of minutes, the game had begun and Clay was manning his post.

Next to him, Kwan’s sock hung limply from a stick, an uninspiring—and very stinky—flag, but Clay dutifully guarded it nonetheless.

It was eerily silent.

Not having Jonah’s extraordinary talent for seeing in the dark—or in this case, the vog—Clay couldn’t see what the others were doing, but as far as he could tell, events were proceeding according to plan. 

Maybe the Worms would win without his coming into contact with another player.

Or did silence mean bad news rather than good?

Whenever Clay felt antsy, his knee jiggled up and down.

His knee was already jiggling uncontrollably when he heard muffled screams and saw a strange, hairy silhouette moving jerkily in the vog. 

It looked like a scarecrow that was losing its stuffing, and it lurched in one direction and then another, as if it were hunting for wayward crows or maybe for a human brain to steal as its own.

Clay tensed as the creature staggered toward him.

What was it?

Just as Clay was considering running for his life, one of the thing’s arms fell off. 

It took another step forward, then collapsed in a heap.

Oh! 

So that’s what it was.

Clay exhaled, relieved and impressed. 

Pablo was a true wizard when it came to automatons. 

If his sticks-and-seaweed robo-man could spook Clay, who was expecting it, it must have been terrifying to the unsuspecting Frogs—a successful diversion. 

With any luck, Jonah would soon be crossing back to their side with the Frogs’ flag in hand.

“Clay! Over here!” a familiar voice called in singsong, from somewhere to his right. 

“Catch me if you can!”

Leira.

It figured that the Frogs would send her for the boys’ flag. 

If anybody was a better thief than Kwan, it was Leira, master pickpocket and perennial prankster. 

She was the person Clay liked best at camp, but also the person who irritated him the most. 

He couldn’t count how many times she had stolen his wallet just for a laugh.

Clay hesitated. 

It would be very satisfying to take her out of the game and throw her into jail. 

Should he look for her? 

Or should he be cautious and keep guarding the flag?

He leaped into the vog, toward where he had heard Leira’s voice come from. 

“Got you!”

As soon as he grabbed her sleeve, he knew he’d fallen into a trap; it had been far too easy to catch her.

In the end, it wasn’t even Leira whom he’d caught. 

It was her sister, Mira, laughing gleefully.

“No, I got you!” she said in her natural voice, which was a little higher-pitched and a lot snottier than her sister’s. 

“Hope you’re not too disappointed.

”Mira was an actress and was well known at camp for her uncannily accurate impersonations of the other campers. 

She could fool you into thinking she was almost anyone. 

Normally, Leira hated it when Mira imitated her; she must have made an exception for the sake of the game.

“Don’t tell me,” said Clay, the horrible truth sinking in. 

“If you’re here, that means Leira is—”

“Crossing back onto our side with your flag just about now?” Mira gloated.

“Uh-huh.”

Sure enough, they heard her sister hooting in victory. 

“And—BOOM!—she takes it over the line!” 

Leira shouted. 

“Watch and learn, boys!”

A second later, she cried out, laughing, “Oh, man, this sock stinks!”

The girls had won.

“Frogs rule! Worms stink!” they chanted. 

“We get dessert! The Worms eat dirt!”

“C’mon, time to face your humiliation,” said Mira.

“Go ahead,” said Clay. 

“I’ll be there in a second.”

Clay sat down on the rock that had been designated the Worms’ jail, unable to believe he’d fallen for such a simple trick. 

Not only could he not build an automaton or see in the dark or start a fire with a snap or do any of the other extraordinary things that the other kids at camp could do, he couldn’t even keep his eye on a smelly sock.

His cabinmates would never let him live this down.

Not for the first time, Clay wondered why his older brother, Max-Ernest, had gone to so much trouble to get him into this camp. * 

His brother seemed to have faith that Clay would make a good magician, just because they used to do magic shows together when Clay was little. 

But at Earth Ranch, whatever being a magician was, it wasn’t about coin tricks or pulling bunnies out of hats.

Unfortunately, Clay had no way to ask Max-Ernest about magicians or bunnies or anything else. 

Clay didn’t know where his brother was—only that he was off somewhere fighting to protect some magical “Other Side” that Clay couldn’t see and barely understood. 

According to Max-Ernest, Clay would soon very likely become caught up in this mysterious battle himself.

Clay only hoped he could be more useful in a battle for the fate of the magical universe than in a game of Capture the Flag.

When Clay stood up, he felt a little dizzy, but he ignored it. 

The vog had gotten thicker, that was all.

He started walking in the direction Mira had gone (or the direction he thought she had gone), only to realize he was walking into the ocean. 

Feet wet, he backtracked, but he became confused again after taking a few soggy steps onto dry sand.

The vog was now so dense that he was having trouble breathing, and he could barely see his own hands. 

He dropped to the sand and crawled for a moment because the air was a little better below knee level.

Soon he found himself at the base of Mount Forge, maneuvering between boulders. 

There wasn’t a trail exactly, but he discovered that if he walked very slowly, he was able to avoid falling. 

He would worry about the others later, he decided; he just wanted to get out of the vog.

After hiking for almost thirty minutes—and traveling a distance that would have normally taken five minutes—Clay hoisted himself up a final boulder and stood on level ground. 

Wisps of steam rose from a hole in the rocks a few feet away, but Clay took little notice; there were volcanic steam vents all over the island. 

Otherwise, the air was significantly clearer up here than it had been below.

It was as good a place as any to wait out the vog.

In his backpack, alongside the notebook in which he practiced his graffiti art, he had a water bottle, trail mix, and a flashlight.

He could easily survive here for a few hours, or even a day or two if need be.

The counselors drilled it into the campers to keep emergency supplies with them at all times. 

You never knew what was going to happen on Price Island; it was best to be prepared. *

Clay was debating his next move when he saw somebody walk out of a narrow crevice in the mountainside.

Instinctively, Clay ducked behind a boulder and hid, his body tense. 

As far as he knew, there were no inhabitants on the island outside of Earth Ranch, and yet it seemed unlikely that any of the other campers would have made it up the mountain in the vog.

After catching his breath, Clay peeked out: It was Flint!

What was he doing here?

The older boy looked around, as if to make sure he wasn’t being observed, and then headed in Clay’s direction.

Clay hugged his side of the boulder, waiting until he was sure Flint had passed. 

He was suddenly very curious to see what was behind that crevice.

Not quite as narrow as it had looked from a distance, the crevice was actually the entrance to a large cave—large enough to hold at least four or five cars.

The light was dim inside, and at first Clay couldn’t see anything but rock, but when he turned on his flashlight, he realized that the cave walls were covered with paintings. 

They were obviously very old—ancient, even—and resembled primitive cave paintings he’d seen in books.

A few of the paintings showed men hunting with spears or bows and arrows, and one showed a dozen men rowing a long boat of some kind. 

But the most striking paintings depicted—both singly and in groups—dark winged creatures with long red tongues. 

Some of these creatures carried deer or other animals in their claws. 

Others circled a smoking volcano that bore a more-than-passing resemblance to Mount Forge. 

It was difficult to tell what, specifically, the flying beasts were meant to represent, but there was a distinct reptilian quality to their sharp claws and curling tails. 

Could they be dinosaurs? 

Clay wondered.

What were those flying dinosaurs called? 

When he was ten years old, he would have known the answer.

Nowadays, his interests ran to other things, like skateboards and graffiti art. 

Looking at the cave paintings, he had an impulse to draw something on the cave walls himself, though of course he resisted. 

(I hope it goes without saying that he would never deface the natural environment!) 

He remembered his mother once comparing the cave paintings at Lascaux to graffiti. * 

At the time, he had dismissed the idea as silly—just his mother’s way of trying to make Clay’s enthusiasms fit into her own. 

Now he wasn’t so sure. 

Maybe there was a real basis for the comparison.

Telling stories on a wall. 

That’s what cave painting was. 

That’s what graffiti was.

Clay pointed his flashlight beam on one painting after another, with the idea that he might copy one or two in his notebook. 

But as he delved deeper into the cave, he noticed that he’d become—suddenly—very, very sleepy.

Trying to fight this unexpected drowsiness, he took a few steps toward the cave entrance—then collapsed onto the stone floor as if he’d been shot with a tranquilizer gun. 

His flashlight beam landed on the biggest of the mysterious winged creatures, which appeared to be swooping down on one of the hunters. 

Struggling to keep his eyes open, Clay noticed that the creature’s tongue was not only long and red but also oddly shaped; instead of coming to a point at the end, or even forking like a snake’s, the tongue spread wider as it got farther from the creature’s mouth—and closer to the hunter’s head.

Wait, that’s not a tongue at all, Clay thought, falling asleep.

That’s fire.

Another cave, deeper underground.

It is dark, but the rock walls are encrusted with crystals. 

They reflect the fiery glow of lava.

Clay is leaning over the edge of a lava pit. 

It is like a furnace. 

The heat sears his face.

As he watches, patches of lava harden into black crust, only to be swallowed by ripples of red-hot molten rock. 

Sulfurous gases bubble up like farts in some monstrous bathtub, filling the cave with their stench. 

And a stray leaf floats up and down in the heat. 

It catches fire just before touching the lava’s surface.

Suddenly, Clay is aware of a new feeling in his stomach. 

It bubbles inside him like the sulfur—a deep, powerful urge to dive in.

To swim in the lava.

With horror, he realizes that he has leaned in too far. 

He struggles to stay upright. 

Too late!

Terrified, he tumbles into the pit, and… It is as if he is plunging into a spring. 

Hot, yes—but wonderfully hot. 

He sinks deeper and deeper, luxuriating in the thick, gurgling, life-giving lava. 

He has never felt so good. 

Nothing burns him. 

It couldn’t. 

It is inside him, as if he has somehow become the fire itself.

He wants to stay under forever.

Then, just as he thinks he must be nearing the center of the earth, he flips himself around. With strength he didn’t know he possessed, he pushes himself upward. 

Faster and faster he rises until he erupts from the crater of the volcano, riding a geyser of molten rock.

Still he does not stop.

Smoke mushrooming behind him, he rockets into the starry night sky.

Soon the volcano is just a dot on that spinning blue-and-green egg called Planet Earth.

With a fiery roar, he spreads his wings and flies.

CHAPTER THREE
BEACHED

The first thing Clay noticed when he awoke was the smell. 

It was worse than Kwan’s socks. 

Worse even than his school bus on the way home from burrito day in the cafeteria.

It was a rotten-egg sort of smell, and it was coming from somewhere deep in the bowels of the mountain. 

Where had he smelled it before? 

In his dream. 

That was it. 

It all came back in a flash. 

Such an intense dream. 

Almost unconsciously, he rolled his shoulders as if they were wings. 

If only he could really fly like that.

Holding his nose, he stood up and took a last look around at the cave paintings.

Dragons.

Of course, they were dragons. 

He couldn’t believe he hadn’t seen it right away.

The paintings probably depicted a myth or legend, like the story of the creation of the volcano or the discovery of fire. 

And yet to Clay’s artist eye, the dragons looked surprisingly lifelike, as if the paintings were showing scenes not from an ancient myth but from a recent hunt.

Strange.

He was about to step outside when he spied a square object sitting in the shadows next to the cave entrance.

When he picked it up, he saw that it was a book. 

It was largish, the size of a school notebook, and bound in some kind of tough, scaly hide or skin that had cracked and yellowed over time, like an old man’s toenail. 

Inside, there was a manuscript written on parchment paper, with a title scrawled across the top page in black ink: Secrets of the Occulta Draco or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer AD 1600

Tucked into the book was a slip of paper with a library call number penciled on it. 

Even if there hadn’t been a call number, Clay would have known where the book came from: the private book collection called (misleadingly) the Price Public Library. 

Campers, and even counselors, were only occasionally allowed to enter the library, and they were never allowed to remove books. 

Flint must have hidden the book in the cave so that nobody would see that he’d taken it.

Naturally, Clay was curious to read whatever was written inside, but there was no time for that now. 

He debated for only a moment before putting the book in his backpack. 

Returning it to the library would be a good deed.

Making Flint angry and confused when he came back to look for it? 

Even better!

By the time Clay got to the beach, the vog was gone and the ocean shimmered in the afternoon sun. 

He thought it must be about three or four o’clock, but he couldn’t be sure. 

He’d slept for at least a couple of hours.

“Hello?” he called out. 

“Anybody here?”

There was no answer.

He walked along the beach, looking for his friends, but as far as he could tell, everybody had left without him. 

Maybe they’d figured he went back to camp? 

Or were his cabinmates getting back at him for losing the game of Capture the Flag?

If one of them had gone missing, he definitely would have waited, he thought.

Well, almost definitely… Clay stopped in his tracks.

Yuck.

About twelve feet ahead, there was a big white lump lying on the black sand. 

At first, Clay took it for a squid washed up on the beach, or maybe just a very large, very pale jellyfish. 

Whatever it was, it was disgusting. 

(Clay had inherited from his brother a fear of anything white and slimy—chiefly mayonnaise.) 

And probably dead.

Still, Clay thought, he should take a closer look—just in case it was a live seal or baby whale or other animal that needed to be pushed back into the sea.

Only a little—well, a lot—nervous, he stepped up to the mysterious lump… 
… and stared in surprise.

It wasn’t a squid or a jellyfish or a seal or a whale; it was a boy, a boy who looked to be about Clay’s age and who was tangled in seaweed and dripping seawater, as if he had only recently washed up onshore. 

The boy’s hair was full of sand, and his eyes were crusted with salt. 

His wet shirt had come unbuttoned, revealing a soft, plump belly, and his equally wet pants were torn and bunched up around the knees. 

He had lost his shoes and one of his socks. 

Only his black bow tie showed no sign of having been tossed and turned by the ocean; it was still shiny and perfectly tied around his neck. 

Until—“Aack!” Clay yelped, startled.

The bow tie had moved! 

For a second he thought the boy had awakened, but then he saw the little purple crab scurrying away across the sand.

Clay’s heart pounded. 

He had no idea what to do.

Calm down, Clay told himself. 

First things first.

“Hey, um, can you hear me?” Clay managed to ask, his voice hoarse.

No reply.

Starting to sweat, Clay knelt by the boy’s side and put his hand on the boy’s cheek. 

It was cold and clammy.

But was it dead clammy? 

Or just clammy?

He lifted the boy’s wrist and felt for a pulse. 

He didn’t feel one, but that didn’t mean anything; he hardly knew what a pulse should feel like.

He tried to remember what he knew about CPR; it wasn’t much. 

You were supposed to push on the person’s chest—or was it the stomach? 

And then you were supposed to count to something. 

And then there was the mouth-to-mouth part.

Yikes.

He tried pushing the boy’s chest a couple of times.

Nothing.

Desperate, he shook the boy by the shoulders. 

“Wake up! I mean, if you’re alive…”

Suddenly, a spray of spit and salt water and vomit hit Clay in the face. 

He wiped the warm, sour mess off his nose and cheek, almost as relieved as he was disgusted. 

It was the first time he’d been happy to have somebody throw up on him. 

Not that anybody had ever thrown up on him before.

When the boy’s coughing subsided, he opened an eye and squinted at Clay.

“Don’t tell me—some kid beat me up again,” he said groggily. 

“Was it you?”

“What? No! I don’t even know you.”

“Then why does my head hurt so bad?” the boy demanded. 

“And why are you grabbing my shoulder like that?”

“Because… Never mind.” 

Embarrassed, Clay let go.

“Wait, I’m not at school, am I?” 

Confused, the boy pushed himself up to a sitting position. 

He rubbed his eyes and looked around, blinking. 

“I guess this is one of those good-news-bad-news situations, huh?”

“You really don’t know where you are?” 

Was it possible the boy was as surprised to find himself here as Clay was?

The boy shook his head. 

“No idea… unless…” 

He looked suspiciously at Clay. 

“Am I on a reality show?”

Clay laughed. 

“Not that I know of. Unless… are you?” 

In truth, it was just as likely as any other explanation for the boy’s mysterious appearance on the beach. *

“I don’t think so.… Do you have any water? My mouth is burning.”

Clay handed over his water bottle. 

The boy looked at the bottle with distaste—it was pretty dirty, now that Clay saw it from someone else’s perspective—then took a swig.

“Well, it’s not Perrier, but it’ll do in a pinch,” the boy said, wiping his mouth.

He handed back the bottle. 

“Okay, so tell me—where are we? Guam? Tahiti? Indonesia?”

“No, just Price Island… and I’m Clay, by the way.”

“Price—are you sure?” said the boy doubtfully. 

“I’ve never heard of it, and I’ve been to a ton of places. I’m Brett Perry. You know, like Perry International…?”

“Not really.”

“Offshore drilling, war-zone security, military scandals… doesn’t ring a bell?”

Clay shook his head. 

“Sorry.”

“Oh.” 

The boy—Brett—sounded surprised. 

Apparently, his family was famous—in his mind, at least. 

“Well, anyway, that’s me. Or my dad, really. I’m Brett junior.”

Clay decided to change the subject. 

“You think maybe you were in a plane crash—I mean, if you travel so much?”

“Maybe…”Brett reached for the bottle and took another swig of water—and coughed again.

“No, I remember now!” 

A shadow seemed to fall across his face, but he shrugged it off. 

“I was on a ship. A huge cruise ship. HUGE. Like a Las Vegas hotel.”

“I’ve never been to Las Vegas.”

“Wow. You are sheltered, aren’t you? Well, the hotels there are ridiculously big, and so was the ship I was on. It had pools, a casino, everything.” 

Brett’s face brightened. 

“And the most amazing Jell-O parfaits ever! I know, Jell-O, who cares, right? But trust me, you have to try them. It’s all about the combination of taste and texture.”

Clay smiled uncertainly. 

Jell-O seemed like a funny thing to talk about under the circumstances. 

“Not sure I’m going on any cruises, but if I do—okay. How’d you wind up in the water?”

“Oh, I, uh, was running on the deck and I just… fell over the railing. Then I… I don’t know, floated here?”

Clay had the impression that Brett was leaving something out of the story, but Clay didn’t say anything. 

It wasn’t in his nature to pry.

“Is there anything to eat in that backpack, by any chance?” Brett asked. 

“I’m so hungry I’m going to die.”

Clay dug into his backpack and pulled out a handful of trail mix.

Brett made a face. 

“No offense, but I wouldn’t feed that to my worst enemy’s pet gerbil. Don’t you have any anything else?”

Clay shook his head. 

This guy had nearly drowned, and he was complaining about trail mix? 

“Sorry. There’s other stuff at camp.”

“Oh, all right, then—” 

Brett grabbed the trail mix and threw it all into his mouth at once as if it were some terrible-tasting medicine.

“What camp?” he asked, his mouth full of nuts and raisins.

“Earth Ranch. My summer camp. So, uh, are you okay? Can you walk?”

“I guess.” 

Brett picked a stray sunflower seed off his arm and ate it. 

Then he wobbled to his feet.

“Ugh. Head rush,” he said, putting his hand to his forehead.

Clay regarded him skeptically. 

The guy didn’t look like much of a hiker—under the best of circumstances. 

“Maybe I should go back and get help.”

“No!” said Brett, as if Clay had proposed amputating a limb.

“You sure?”

“Isn’t there a hotel or a resort or something?”

“Nope. Only camp. There’s nothing else on the island.”

“Seriously?” Brett looked alarmed. 

“Well, I can’t go there.”

Incredulous, Clay glanced around the beach. 

“What are you going to do? Swim home?”

Brett grabbed Clay by the arm and looked at him intently—intensely intently. 

“What do you think they’ll do if you take me to your camp?”

“I don’t know,” said Clay, pulling away. 

Why was this kid freaking out? 

“Call your dad, I guess?”

“Exactly!”

“He’s that bad?”

Brett nodded.

“Worse than being stranded on an island in the middle of nowhere?”

Brett nodded again.

“What about your mom?”

“Dead.”

“Oh, jeez. Sorry,” said Clay. 

Why couldn’t there be anything simple about this situation?

“I never even knew her.… Now promise you won’t tell anyone about me.”

“Maybe if you explained…?” Clay suggested. 

“The director of the camp, Mr. Bailey—he’s pretty cool.”

“Please,” scoffed Brett. 

“It’s a summer camp. He’ll turn me over to the authorities before I finish dinner. The only thing he’s worried about is a lawsuit. Trust me, I know. My father’s been in court more times than I can count.”

Actually, Clay thought, what Mr. B would be most worried about is an outsider finding out about the true, magical nature of the camp. 

Maybe it would be best not to drag Brett to camp after all.

“Okay,” said Clay. 

“So what do you want to do, then?”

“I need to think. Can’t you just… wait?”

“Here? If I don’t go back soon, they’ll come looking for me for sure,” said Clay.

At least, he hoped they would. 

He was still a little sore about his friends going back to camp without him.

“So you’re just going to leave me? You can’t!” said Brett. 

He seemed almost as upset about the prospect of being left alone as he’d been about the prospect of being taken to camp.

Clay gripped his hair in exasperation. 

“What else am I supposed to do?”

“Oh, I don’t know, maybe what any decent human being would do? Help me find more food, water, a place to sleep… shoes.” 

Brett looked down at his bare foot. 

“Or leave me alone to wither away and die. Your choice.”

Clay sighed. 

He had the feeling that his life on Price Island was about to become considerably more complicated.

“Okay, I know a place,” he said reluctantly. 

“It smells kinda rank, but you’ll be fine.” 

Clay told Brett about the cave and how to get there. 

He didn’t mention the dream—or the book.

Brett looked like he was about to protest, then thought better of it.

“Just promise not to tell anyone about me,” he repeated. 

“Or I really will be dead.”

He sounded so worried that an awful idea occurred to Clay: What if Brett’s fall from the cruise ship hadn’t been an accident?

FROM Secrets of the Occulta Draco; or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer *

Prologus 

Today, there are very few dragons left. 

Soon there may be none. 

Already, many people believe that dragons never existed.

I, the last of the Dragon Tamers, have decided to record my memories and to relate whatever wisdom I may have gained during a lifetime spent among the noblest and most magical of beasts, in the hope that one day, when dragons again roam the earth, a brave young person will read my words and will heed the dragon’s call.

To that person, I dedicate this book.

But first, a word of caution: Only someone who has the true spirit of the Dragon Tamer may learn our ways. 

We speak the tongue of dragons, and that is not a language that can be taught, only awakened. 

One knows it instinctively, the way a great musician knows music, or one knows it not at all.

To all others, our words are gibberish, our traditions senseless, and our beliefs unfathomable.

Thus the secrets of our order, the Occulta Draco, are protected from those who would make mischief.

Alas, there are a few who share our knowledge of dragontongue yet have no love for dragonkind, or indeed for humankind. 

They have the gifts of a Dragon Tamer but not the heart. 

Inside their chests is nothing but an unquenchable hunger for dragonfire and the power it brings.

From these people, whom we call the Fire Breathers, this book must be kept at all costs. 

Were even one of them to learn its secrets, disaster would surely fall.

For he who has power over dragons has power over us all.

CHAPTER FOUR
THE RAINBOW

Earth Ranch had a rainbow.

It was a permanent camp fixture, like the yurts and the geodesic dome and the lakefront rope swing.

Sometimes it got a little brighter or dimmer. 

Sometimes it moved a little this way or that way. 

But rain or shine, it never left. 

Even in the vog it was there, lighting up the smoky air like a big neon sign.

According to the counselors, the rainbow acted as a sort of magical barometer. 

If and when it disappeared, they would know magic was in trouble. 

And yet for Clay, the rainbow’s presence was far more frustrating than comforting. 

At this very moment, for example, as he was eating breakfast in front of Big Yurt (the closest thing Earth Ranch had to a dining hall), the rainbow appeared five or six feet away at the most, but he knew perfectly well that it would evaporate if he tried to touch it. 

No matter how tantalizingly close it came, the rainbow remained forever out of reach.

Just like magic itself.

Jonah waved his hand in front of Clay’s face. 

“Stop staring. That thing will drive you crazy. Trust me, I chased it for six hours straight once.”

Sitting across the table, Kwan laughed. 

“He’s just tweaked that we left him on the beach yesterday.”

“Wait, what?” said Clay, snapping out of it. 

Left who on the beach? 

Were they talking about Brett?

“You think we were so mad about Capture the Flag that we would leave you there on purpose?” said Pablo. 

“Okay, we’re jerks sometimes, yeah, but c’mon—”

“We told you, it wasn’t up to us,” said Jonah. 

“We were all, But what about Clay? And Flint was like, No worries, Clay went back to camp.”

No, there was no way they could know about Brett, Clay reassured himself.

“Man, that guy really hates on you,” said Kwan, shaking his head. 

“Flint’s not going to be happy until your butt is off this island.”

“Thanks,” said Clay. 

“That makes me feel much better.”

He took a sip of his carrot-beet juice and put it right down.

Why did all the food in this hippie fairyland taste the same?

“Here, this will cheer you up,” said Pablo, grabbing Clay’s glass. 

He inserted his straw and started blowing bubbles.

“What are you doing?!”

“Watch—” 

Pablo withdrew his straw. 

The red-orange juice continued to bubble and fizz like carbonated soda.

Magic carbonated soda.

Clay smiled. 

“Cool. Radioactive spit.”

He put the glass to his lips, then stopped mid-sip; the Pond counselor, Adriana, who happened to be the strictest counselor at the camp, was walking by.

If she witnessed Pablo’s magical tomfoolery, their whole table would be punished. 

She gave the boys a suspicious glance but continued on.

There was no chance for Clay to be relieved, however, because the bubbles were coming faster and faster.

“Oh, man—”

By the time he put his glass down, foam was spilling out of the glass, and juice was pouring out of his nose. 

He was drenched.

The others burst out laughing.

Pablo grinned. 

“Okay, so maybe I was a little mad that we had to give our s’mores to the girls last night.…”

Juice dripping from his chin, Clay shook his head, laughing with them. 

“Yeah, well, you can just go… expel-your-anus!”

More laughter. 

Expel-your-anus was the Worms’ favorite all-purpose rejoinder—not a real magic spell, perhaps, but almost as satisfying. * 

Pablo gamely put his hand to his mouth and made loud farting noises.

As he wiped himself off, Clay looked down at his plate. 

“Hey, what happened to my bananas?”

“Were you looking for these?” 

Laughing, a certain freckle-faced girl in a newsboy cap plopped three bananas onto his plate.

Of course.

Clay shook his head. 

“The master thief strikes again!”

“Why do you need three bananas, anyway?” asked Leira, sitting down next to him on the stone bench. 

“You think juggling fruit is that special magical talent you’ve been looking for?”

“They’re for Como.”

Como C. Llama was the llama Clay had been taking care of since his first day at camp. 

Hopefully, Leira wouldn’t remember that Como hated bananas.

“Oh well,” said Leira. 

“I didn’t think you were the circus type anyway. Something will come along, you’ll see. One day, you’ll be picking your nose, and suddenly—”

Clay grinned. 

“So that’s how you became a pickpocket!”

Leira laughed ruefully. 

“I deserved that.”

“Uh-oh—” 

She pointed to a bee hovering nearby. 

“Looks like somebody heard about your face fountain.”

As the kids watched nervously, the first bee was joined by a small swarm of his brother drones. 

They spread out into a ribbon and then fluidly formed a question mark.

“Tell Buzz not to get all bent out of shape,” said Kwan to the bees. 

“Whatever Adriana thinks she saw, it was only carrot juice.”

Buzz was the Worm counselor and the camp beekeeper—or, as the campers sometimes joked, the Worm keeper and the bee counselor. 

Around camp, the bees served as his eyes and ears and, occasionally, as his message bearers.

The bees hovered in place, as if considering a rebuttal, then flew away with an angry hum.

“It’s like we live in a prison run by bees,” grumbled Pablo, who, as a self-described anarchist, hated authority of all kinds. 

“I swear, one day I’m going to zap those little spies with a can of bug spray.”

Leira looked at him, aghast. 

“Don’t even joke about that!”

“Sorry, forgot you were a vegan.”

“That has nothing to do with it!”

Clay nervously patted his sweatshirt pocket with his juice-sticky fingers.

Inside, the bananas sat next to a mango, one of the camp’s homemade breakfast bars (dates, sunflower seeds, and bee pollen), and a worn pair of flip-flops.

He hoped the pollen wouldn’t attract the bees’ attention.

Far from being a prison, Earth Ranch more closely resembled a preschool: All the campers ran around with bare feet and dirty faces; they did plenty of arts and crafts (magical arts and crafts, but nonetheless… ); and there was circle time each morning and each afternoon. 

The afternoon circle, known simply as Circle, was the time for sharing feelings and airing concerns—in other words, for shouting and fighting. 

The morning circle, called Morning Mindfulness, was a calmer affair, akin to a yoga class—if your yoga instructor happened to be a wizard with a peculiar affection for bees.

That morning, Buzz sat on the ground under the dome, his long legs crossed in lotus position. 

A lone bee sat on his bushy mustache while others circled his head in a moving halo.

The campers sat facing him, their legs also crossed, but only Adriana, who was sitting in the back, keeping an eye on everyone from behind, was flexible enough to match Buzz’s full lotus.

As for Clay, he wasn’t quite sure what mindfulness was except that it was his idea of torture. * 

Never mind that there was a starving fugitive waiting for him in a cave. 

Unfortunately, Buzz had refused to excuse Clay from that morning’s session, even when Clay had tried to insist that an early-morning hike would do him just as much good.

“Be aware of your breath…”

Buzz was saying, his voice low and lulling. 

“Feel it, don’t force it. Let your breath breathe you.…”

As their counselor spoke, his breath became visible in puffs, as on a frosty winter day.

“There is no inhale, no exhale. There is only the ebb and flow of energy.…”

One by one, the kids lit up in delighted surprise: Their breath was materializing in the air as well.

Unable to focus on his own breathing—unable to focus on anything at all, really—Clay watched the little clouds floating out of his friends’ mouths. 

He glanced over his shoulder.  

Adriana gave him a look, and he turned back around.

From his own mouth, naturally, came nothing.

“This energy, this vital life force, the ancient Greeks called it pneuma—the breath of life.” 

Lingering in the air, the campers’ breath curled like smoke. 

Gradually, it started to sparkle, as if it were made of gold dust.

Mesmerized, Clay began to relax.

Finally, he could see his own breath, streaming from his mouth in one long exhale. 

He smiled to himself; maybe he had some magical potential after all.

“In Chinese medicine, it is chi. In the Hindu religion and in yoga, it is prana. But you are probably more familiar with what those famous yoga masters Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda call it—the Force.”

The campers giggled uncomfortably, uncertain whether Buzz was joking. 

(Probable answer: He was and he wasn’t.)

Above them, their golden breath spread out like a blanket, darkening the space beneath the geodesic dome while at the same time sparkling brighter and brighter. 

Soon, the campers were looking up at a night sky, replete with twinkling stars, swirling galaxies, and fiery comets.

“This energy, this pneuma-prana-chi-force, it is everywhere and nowhere. It is part of the unseen universe. The universe that we in the SOS call the Other Side.”

At the mention of the Other Side, the stars, like so many golden snowflakes, started gently to fall. 

There were audible sighs from the campers.

“When the Other Side intersects with our side, when we see its energy at work in the physical world—this we call magic.”

As the last of the stars fell away, Buzz, still in lotus position, floated in the air, about two feet off the ground.

“And this I call the flotus position,” he said, smiling.

Some of the kids laughed. 

Others rolled their eyes.

“Bad pun, I know, but there’s a point to it. Magic, like yoga, is a practice. A practice we must maintain if we are to keep it from falling into the wrong hands. Perhaps I imagined it, but this morning the rainbow looked a bit… I’m sorry, give me a second—”

A bee hovered by Buzz’s ear. 

Buzz frowned as he listened.

“Guys, I’m sorry, we have to cut this short,” he said, lowering himself to the ground. 

“A cruise ship has anchored close to shore. 

I don’t know if they’re stopping for a snorkel, or if they’re in some kind of distress, or if… well, better not to speculate.”

The campers looked at one another in surprise. 

Nobody had heard of a boat ever stopping anywhere near the island. 

It was too remote and inhospitable for tourists, and the vog kept away even the most intrepid fishermen.

Clay tried not to show any reaction—

“Clay, are you all right?” whispered Leira.

Apparently, he had failed.

“No, I’m fine, it’s, uh…” 

He should warn Brett, but how? 

He turned to their counselor. 

“Hey, Buzz, I just remembered, I left my wallet at the beach yesterday when the vog got really bad. Can I go get it?”

“All right, but don’t take all day,” said Buzz, who was signaling instructions to the bees with his hands. 

“And bring Como with you. That llama of yours needs a walk.”

“Okay, thanks,” said Clay, jumping up before Buzz could change his mind.

Leira watched Clay go, then looked at the wallet in her hand, puzzled.

She’d lifted it from his pocket only a moment ago. 

There’d been no time for him to miss it.

CHAPTER FIVE
AN ANNOUNCEMENT

There are two kinds of people in the world: people whose idea of heaven is to be stuck on a boat with nothing to do except work on their suntans and eat as much beef Wellington as they can, and people whose idea of hell it is. 

In other words, there are people who love cruise ships and people who hate them.

Personally, I am in the second camp. 

All those humans stewing together in one germ-infested pot? 

No, thank you! 

The last time I went on a cruise, there was an outbreak of stomach flu so intense that—well, you don’t want to hear about that.

Naturally enough, most of the passengers on the Imperial Conquest were cruise lovers, or cruisers, as cruise-ship veterans call themselves. 

Inevitably, however, there were a few cruise haters aboard, who had been dragged along by their cruise-loving families. 

You can imagine how these disgruntled souls reacted when the ship dropped anchor without warning in the dark of night. 

As far as anybody could tell, they were in the middle of nowhere, and by breakfast time, anxious murmurs could be heard all over the ship. 

The crew tried their best to reassure worried passengers, but in truth the crew didn’t know what was happening, either.

When the intercom finally beeped, signaling an announcement, everyone waited with bated breath for an explanation. 

Even the youngest children fell silent and listened. 

Only the occasional wailing baby interrupted Brett’s father as he addressed the ship’s passengers: “Ladies and gentlemen, guests and crew of the Imperial Conquest. This is Brett Perry speaking to you from the captain’s deck. Captain Abad is indisposed at the moment, but she has graciously allowed me to speak in her place.“

As the new owner of Imperial Cruise Lines, I had hoped to use this trip to introduce myself and welcome you as my friends. 

Sadly, tragedy has intervened. 

I am sorry to report there has been an accident. 

My only son, Brett junior, has fallen off this ship. 

Although I must face the fact that he may have drowned, I remain hopeful that he is still alive. 

In a moment, I will be leading a search party to Price Island.

That’s the island you can see port side. 

The left side of the ship, for you landlubbers like me. * 

They tell me that with the direction of the ocean currents, there is a strong possibility that my son has landed there.

“In the meantime, enjoy yourselves as much as you can. The pools and spa are open. Drinks are on the house. And every passenger will receive a one-hundred-dollar chip to use in the casino. Well, every passenger over eighteen. Thank you.”

Afterward, a few passengers could be heard complaining about their vacations being ruined, but even the most ardent cruise haters felt sympathy for Brett’s father and agreed that he was treating them quite generously under the circumstances. 

They happily lined up at the casino to get their chips.

Of course, there was one person on board who was far from happy with the announcement. 

She knew much of it to be untrue, and she longed to set the record straight. 

Unfortunately, her mouth was gagged, and she was tied to a chair in her stateroom. 

It is safe to say that she did not consider herself a cruise lover at the moment.

Captain Sofia Abad had lost command of her ship.

CHAPTER SIX 
FOOT PRINT

Clay was beginning to regret taking the llama with him.

“C’mon, Como,” he pleaded. 

“Vámonos.”

The llama snorted disdainfully.

“I know you’re not a dog. I’m sorry. Discúlpame—”

Como had been darting ahead of Clay for the entire hike, teasing his two-legged companion with his superior speed and agility. 

Now that they were finally in sight of the cave, however, the llama had decided he was done running. 

Como sat on his back legs like a camel, just a few feet away from the steam vent that Clay had first spotted the day before.

And when Como decided to sit, there was usually no changing his mind.

Clay sighed in frustration. 

Behind them, far out in the ocean, the massive cruise ship was sitting idle, like a sea monster waiting patiently for its prey. 

The fear in Brett’s voice was still ringing in Clay’s ears. 

He had to warn him.

“What’s wrong?” Clay asked the llama. 

“Are you scared? ¿Tienes miedo?”

Although Clay’s Spanish was limited, he and the Peruvian camelid had a special connection, and normally they communicated with ease. * 

It was one of the few ways, if not the only way, in which Clay could claim an ability that might—possibly—be construed as magical. 

(Then again, he sometimes reminded himself, all people talked to their pets; some people even talked to their plants!) 

Right now, however, he had no idea what the llama was thinking. 

The only clue was the llama’s ears. 

They were pointed forward—a sign of fear or danger.

“Is the volcano about to erupt? Is there a bear in the cave? ** Don’t tell me it’s the smell—your shed smells a lot worse!”

Como’s ears flattened further. 

Bear or no, the llama was definitely afraid of something. 

So afraid that he seemed to have lost all capacity for language.

And he wasn’t going anywhere.

“Fine, I’ll go without you, but you’d better stay aqui, okay?—Ow!”

In his agitation, Clay had stepped too close to the steam vent. 

A plume of steam scalded his hand.

He blew on his hand to cool it off.

The llama’s odd behavior had unnerved Clay, and he took only a tentative step into the cave before stopping.

“Hello?”

There was no bear.

There was no Brett, either.

The one thing not missing was the stench.

Clay steeled himself against the sulfur smell and took a few more steps inside.

“Brett, you in here?”

Outside, the sun was high in the sky, and the interior of the cave was brighter than it had been the day before.

Clay’s eyes lingered on the cave paintings, which looked even sharper and more alive upon second viewing. 

He could almost hear the dragons calling to one another as they flapped their wings.

He rubbed his eyes. 

Why did this cave make him so sleepy?

“Pee-ew! It smells worse than Kwan’s sock in here!”

Clay jumped, startled.

Leira was standing inside the mouth of the cave.

“I knew you weren’t looking for your wallet!” 

Grinning, she tossed his wallet to him. 

“You’re so full of it.”

“Thanks. Right. There it is. I should have known you’d have it.”

Clay glanced around nervously. 

Never mind his wallet; how was he going to look for Brett with Leira watching his every move?

Leira walked up beside him. 

“Cool drawings. So this is what you came here for—to see them?”

“Yeah, uh, I saw Flint walking out of the cave, and I decided to check it out,” said Clay, more or less truthfully.

“Since when does Flint care about art?” 

Leira stepped closer to one of the cave paintings. 

“They’re dinosaurs, right? What are they called—pterodactyls? It looks like those people are hunting them.…”

“Well, that would be quite a discovery,” said Brett, emerging out of the shadows.

“Considering that the last dinosaurs died millions of years before there were any people. Or any cave paintings.”

Despite looking even more bedraggled after his night in the cave, Brett held himself with great dignity—and his bow tie was still tied perfectly around his neck.

Leira stared. 

“A. You don’t have to be so snotty about it. B. Who the heck are you?”

“That’s Brett,” said Clay, relieved that Brett was still alive, if a little surprised that he’d shown himself. 

“And those aren’t dinosaurs—they’re dragons.”

Leira laughed. 

“Dragons?  Dragons are supposed to be more realistic than dinosaurs?”

Clay shrugged. 

“All I know is they’re breathing fire. Look at the red parts.”

Leira scrutinized one of the drawings. 

“Okay, maybe that is fire. I guess that’s why Flint was so into them.”

She turned back to Brett and regarded him suspiciously. 

“That still doesn’t explain your secret friend.”

Clay looked at Brett. 

“I swear, I didn’t bring her.”

“You can tell her, I guess,” said Brett. 

“Just please, both of you, don’t tell anybody else I’m here.”

“I’m great at keeping secrets,” said Leira.

“When I want to be.”

Brett turned to Clay. 

“And please tell me you brought something to eat. That’s the only reason I came out here.”

Clay reached into his sweatshirt pocket.

Brett crossed his fingers, murmuring, “Not more trail mix, please. Not more trail mix… Wait, what is that—birdseed?!”

“It’s a breakfast bar. And you’re welcome.”

“Right. Of course it is,” said Brett, taking a cautious nibble. 

“Thanks.”

“That’s okay. I don’t really like them, either.” Clay laughed. 

“Oh, here—”

He tossed Brett the bananas, mango, and flip-flops. 

They landed in a pile in front of Brett’s bare feet.

“Flip-flops?”

Clay gave him a look.

“Okay, okay, there’s a first time for everything, I guess.” 

Brett eyed the shoes warily as he picked up the bananas. 

You could see the dirty imprint of Clay’s toes in the rubber. 

“Couldn’t you at least have cleaned them first?”

Clay gave him another look.

“I know, beggars, choosers, et cetera, et cetera…” 

Brett held up his hands in surrender.

“You got that right!” said Clay, amused despite himself. 

Maybe Brett was annoyingly squeamish, but at least he was funny.

As Brett tried on the flip-flops, Clay told Leira about finding their surprise guest lying half-drowned on the beach.

“Awesome—our very own castaway!” said Leira when Clay finished. 

“So the ship that’s parked out there—that’s the one you were on?”

“Oh no, it’s here?” Brett grimaced as if he had a sudden pain in his stomach. 

He set down the remaining banana. 

“I guess they’re looking for me.… It’s called the Imperial Conquest. My dad owns it.”

“Wow. You must be rich.” Leira smiled slyly. 

“I bet there’s a big reward for you.”

“Leira!” 

Clay shot her a warning look.

“Don’t worry, I won’t turn him in. But if you want my help, I want the whole story. Now.” 

Leira folded her arms and looked hard at Brett. 

“First of all, did you really fall off? I mean, don’t they have railings, and nets, and stuff? Sorry, but it’s kind of hard to believe.”

“Leave him alone—he almost drowned,” said Clay, although he had his own suspicions.

“No, it’s okay,” said Brett. 

“She’s right. I didn’t exactly fall.”

Leira glanced at Clay. 

See.

“You mean you jumped?” prompted Clay, who in reality was as eager to hear the story as Leira was.

“It was my dad. We had a fight.…”

Brett described finding all the animals in the ship’s hold, as well as the huge shipping-container-turned-cage. 

“There were all these guns lined up. I could tell they were planning to smuggle some kind of big, scary animal—like a lion or a tiger, maybe, but, I don’t know… bigger. At least, that’s what it looked like. And the live animals were there for it to eat, I think.”

“All that to smuggle one animal?” said Clay, dubious.

“Are you kidding? There’s a huge black market,” said Brett. 

“Haven’t you heard about the rhinos? They’re practically extinct now because of their horns.”

Leira nodded knowingly. 

“It’s like shark fins. People are crazy. They think eating them will cure all their illnesses.” *

Clay looked at her skeptically.

“What, it’s called the Internet,” she said, brushing him off.

“She’s right,” said Brett. 

“And don’t forget elephants. My dad went on this secret elephant hunt once. It’s disgusting.”

“Tell me about it,” said Leira, who considered herself a dedicated animal rights activist. 

“The ivory trade. Circuses. Elephants are abused everywhere.”

Brett nodded. 

“Anyway, it was obvious my dad was doing something horrible, and probably illegal. Operation St. George, they called it—”

“St. George? Why?” asked Clay.

Brett shrugged. 

“I don’t know. It was like a code name or something.”

“Don’t interrupt, Clay.” 

Leira turned to Brett. 

“So—?”

“So when he caught me in that cage, at first I didn’t say anything, but when he started yelling at me for spying, something just snapped, and I told him that he was disgusting and evil and I hated him and I hoped whatever animal he was hunting ate him for dinner. I know, really mature…” 

Brett rolled his eyes. 

“Then I ran out, and he chased me all the way onto the deck, yelling that he’ll teach me not to talk to him like that and whatever.… And when he caught me, he grabbed me so hard I screamed that I was going to report him to Child Services. And that I was going to call Greenpeace or PETA about his animal-hunting operation. I didn’t even know what I was saying. It was crazy, but I guess my dad believed me, because he went totally ballistic. He started shaking me harder and harder, saying, ‘You’ll never be a real man, you’re no son of mine, I never want to see you again’—et cetera, et cetera. He sounded like a dad in some old movie.…”

Brett tried to roll his eyes again, but it was apparent that he was forcing back tears.

”Anyway, I told him to let go of me, and maybe I hit him—I can’t really even remember—and the captain of the ship, she tried to stop him, but she couldn’t, and—well, I don’t know if he really meant to, or if he just pushed too hard, but…” 

Brett trailed off.

“He pushed you off the boat? His own son? He could have killed you!” 

Leira exclaimed. 

“Sorry, I didn’t mean to sound so excited.…”

“Now you see why I don’t want my dad to find me?” 

A tear trickled down Brett’s face.

He hastily wiped it away, and Clay and Leira pretended not to notice. 

They had had their own troubles with their parents, but nothing like this. 

It was unimaginable.

“So what’s your plan?” asked Leira finally. 

“Just hide here until the ship leaves?”

Brett wiped his eyes. 

“I guess.”

“Okay,” said Leira. 

“Then what?”

“The seaplane comes tomorrow to deliver supplies,” said Clay, glancing at her. 

“I was thinking we could try to stow him away on it.”

“I don’t know. That plane lands all the way on the other side of the island,” said Leira, skeptical. 

“And it’s pretty small.”

“It doesn’t matter,” said Brett eagerly. 

“You can pack me in a box and tie it up with string. Anything’s better than seeing my dad again.”

“All right, if that’s what you want, we’ll figure it out,” said Leira, despite her misgivings. 

“It’ll be good practice. You never know when you’re going to have to plan a quick getaway, right?”

Brett smiled.

“Great. I’ll see you tomorrow, then?”

They nodded “I’ll come back tonight,” said Clay. 

“And maybe bring you something better than birdseed if I can scrounge it up.”

“That would be fantastic,” said Brett. 

“But only if it’s, you know, not too much trouble.”

Clay laughed. 

“Oh, it’s trouble, all right, but whatever.…” 

He shrugged.

“Seriously,” said Brett, looking him in the eye. 

“Thanks. Nobody’s ever helped me out like this. It’s really… cool of you. Both of you. Not that I’ve ever been stranded on a desert island before, but—you know what I mean.”

“Shut up,” said Clay, reddening. 

“Now you’re embarrassing me.”

“Don’t say ‘shut up,’” admonished Leira. 

“It’s rude.”

Brett laughed. 

“Hey, I almost forgot. Look what I found—”

He held up a disk-shaped rock imprinted with what looked like three reptilian toes. 

“I know I was the one knocking the dinosaur theory, but doesn’t it look like one of those fossilized dinosaur footprints—you know, like you see at a natural history museum?”

“Nah. If you listened to Clay here, you’d know it’s obviously a dragon print,” Leira joked. 

“You can tell by the shape of the toenails. Like little daggers.”

“Heh.” Clay forced a laugh.

He was starting to feel that strange sleepiness again, and for some reason he didn’t think her joke was very funny. 

They found Como sitting where Clay had left him, his ears still pointed forward. 

If anything, the llama looked more frightened of the cave than he had before.

“Hey, you don’t think, in that cave, there couldn’t be—there couldn’t ever have really been—”

Clay stammered to Leira. 

“I mean, those are just paintings, right? Never mind.  I’m being dumb.”

“You said it, not me.” Leira smirked.

“Thanks for the encouragement.”

“Seriously,” said Leira, lowering her voice, “the only thing in there you need to worry about is Brett. What if he finds out about camp?”

“You mean about the magic?” said Clay, lowering his voice as well, even though they were well out of Brett’s hearing range.

“Yes, I mean the magic, duh. If he tells any outsiders, it’ll be all over the news in seconds, and this place will be swarming. Everybody at camp will want to kill us. I will want to kill us.”

“Don’t worry, he’s not going to find out,” said Clay, with more confidence than he felt.

Leira looked sideways at him. 

“Are you sure we shouldn’t tell Mr. B about him? Just in case.”

“Yes, I’m sure.… C’mon, Como, let’s go home.”

He gave the llama a pat on the head, uncertain whether he was trying to reassure Como or himself.

FROM Secrets of the Occulta Draco; or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer

Lesson the first:

Always remember, dear apprentice Dragon Tamer, that you are not and never will be a tamer of dragons. 

A dragon is not a lion in a circus. 

A dragon cannot be tamed any more than it can be caged. 

It is foolish to think so—and almost certain death if you try.

As a man knowledgeable in the ways of dragons once said, “Wiser it is to kill a dragon than to chain it. For a dragon is the very essence of wildness and will not stay chained for long.”

Nonetheless, it is as Dragon Tamers that our kind has always been known; and it is as Dragon Tamers that history shall remember us, if it remembers us at all.

What does a Dragon Tamer do with a dragon if not tame it? 

The short answer is, nothing.

This is much more difficult than it sounds. 

There are very few people who have the strength to do nothing in the presence of a dragon.

Dragons, through no fault of their own, arouse great passions in our excitable little species. 

When meeting a dragon, most humans are overcome by terror; and if not terror, they are overwhelmed by greed or anger or pride or jealousy. 

If they are not convinced that their world is about to end, then they are convinced that great power and wealth are within their grasp; and they are willing to take great risks to attain those things.

Dragon-frenzy, we call it.

A Dragon Tamer, on the other hand, does not react to a dragon except as one being to another. 

Yes, after he (or she! Some of the best Tamers I have known are women) has been with a dragon a great while, he may stroke its neck, or clean its scales, or sharpen its claws. 

He may roast a leg of mutton with the dragon’s breath. 

(Only, of course, after the dragon has eaten first!) 

A Dragon Tamer may even, in certain unusual circumstances, fly on the dragon’s back. 

But first and foremost, the Tamer shows that he desires nothing for himself other than to share the air the dragon breathes and the earth the dragon treads.

There are only three rules when it comes to dragons. 

We call them the Three Precepts.

I. Ask naught from a dragon but to share the air around you.

II. Deny naught that a dragon asks for but the soul within you.

III. Refuse naught that a dragon offers but to breathe upon you.

CHAPTER SEVEN
SOS

Despite what you may have heard, SOS does not stand for Save Our Ship. 

The famous three-letter distress signal came into being only because it is so simple to reproduce in Morse code. * 

It might just as easily stand for Sink Our Sailboat or Seize Our Submarine. 

Or, for that matter, Spill Our Soup or Steal Our Sandwich.

For the campers and counselors of Earth Ranch, SOS was not a distress signal at all; instead, the letters stood for the name of a certain society to which they all belonged: a secret society, the Society of the Other Side.

Nonetheless, when the bees stopped Leira and Clay on their way back to camp and flew into SOS formation, the two young society members knew the message must be urgent. 

Sure enough, a moment later, the bees regrouped to form the initials PPL followed by the number 12. 

Clay and Leira understood immediately: There would be an emergency society meeting at the Price Public Library at noon—the first such meeting that had been held that summer.

A round stone tower that looked like it could have been built in the Middle Ages, the Price Public Library was in reality fewer than a hundred years old. 

Still, it was one of the oldest structures on Price Island (not that there were many to choose from), and by far the biggest to have survived the volcanic explosion that left Randolph Price’s mansion, Price Palace, in ruins.

When Clay and Leira (and the llama) arrived a few minutes early for the SOS meeting, a tattered canvas teepee was incongruously tethered to a post in front of the library. 

Although there was no wind, the teepee appeared to be straining to get free and fly away like a kite.

They watched it with curiosity, the llama especially. 

(What sort of animal is this, he must have wondered.) 

It was unusual to see Mr. Bailey’s summer residence up close; most often, the skittish teepee hid in the vog, away from the prying eyes of young campers.

Leira’s sister, Mira, was standing by the library door. 

As always when he saw them together, Clay marveled that two people could resemble each other so much and so little at the same time. 

Leira, the vegan thief, in her newsboy hat and suspenders; Mira, the bookish actress, with her long hair and summer dress (an unusual choice at Earth Ranch, where everyone else wore jeans)—their styles couldn’t have been more different. 

And yet their faces and their coloring were so similar that anybody who looked at all closely could see they were sisters.

Mira watched Clay tie Como to the post, next to the teepee.

“You guys are the first ones here. Except for Mr. B—” 

She tilted her head, indicating his teepee. 

“I’m supposed to guard the door.”

Leira wrinkled her face. 

“Since when does anybody guard anything on this island?”

“Since some strange speedboat landed on the beach, I guess,” said Mira.

“Did you see it?”

“Landed? Did it come from the cruise ship?” asked Clay, feeling a creeping sense of dread.

“Think so. Buzz went down to check it out. Did you find your wallet?”

“Yep. Right where I left it.” 

Clay avoided Mira’s eyes. 

He wasn’t nearly as talented an actor as she was.

“Oh, good.” 

Mira smiled at Leira in a way that was more like a frown. 

“I made a bet that my sister had taken it again.”

Leira smiled back—in the same unsmiling way. 

“Not this time.”

“So why’d you go after him, then?” said Mira, clearly disbelieving. 

“You just thought you’d give him a helping hand?”

“Uh-huh.”

A look passed between Leira and Mira. 

Actually, several looks. 

They were not always the best of friends, but they regularly held long conversations without saying a word.

Clay had no idea what the tension between them was about; he only knew he wanted to stay out of it. 

He focused instead on the crumbling building in front of them.

Weeks earlier, when Clay had first discovered the old library tower, he’d imagined that it was haunted by ghosts of the dead. 

As it turned out, he wasn’t far off. 

At least, there were hardly any living souls inside. 

A public library in name only, the Price Public Library had never officially opened while Randolph Price was alive. 

Nowadays, it was open to Earth Ranch campers, but only on special occasions. 

The secretive billionaire’s copious collections of rare books and objets had to be handled very carefully; indeed, many things in the library were never to be handled at all. *

Today, entering the library with Leira, Clay felt again as though he were stepping not backward in time so much as into a place where time had stopped. 

Or where all times occurred at once.

Partly it was the way sunlight filtered down through the dusty air from the large round skylight. 

Partly it was the way the long, sloping balcony spiraled down from the top of the tower all the way to the bottom floor, several stories underground. 

Whichever way you looked, the library seemed to spin slowly in one direction or the other.

It was disorienting and compelling at the same time.

“I swear, someday I’m coming back here with my skateboard,” he said.

Leira scoffed.

“Yeah, you wish.”

“Come out, come out, wherever you are!”

They’d expected to find Mr. Bailey busy preparing for the SOS meeting. 

Instead, they found their camp’s director crawling on all fours underneath the big old banyan tree that grew out of the library’s stone floor.

“Where are you, my little friend?” 

Mr. Bailey called, his voice ringing throughout the library. 

(He had spent many years in the theater and always sounded like he was addressing the back row.) 

“I know you’re here somewhere!”

Long, dangling roots slapped him on his butt as he crawled around the tree. 

Clay stifled a laugh.

“Uh, hi, Mr. B,” said Leira bravely. 

“What are you looking for? Can we help?”

“Oh, hello! I didn’t see you—”

Mr. Bailey stood up and stepped out from under the tree, seemingly unembarrassed to have been caught in such an undignified pose.

“Did Harry sneak in again?” asked Leira.

Harry was the camp cat. 

The last time he got into the library, he’d been locked inside for weeks.

“Ah, if only.” Mr. Bailey sighed.
“I’m afraid it’s a little more serious than that. A book is missing.”

“You were talking to a book?” asked Clay, unable to hide his surprise.

“Well, not just any book—one of our underground residents.”

Mr. Bailey nodded to an open hatch door at the base of the banyan tree.

As Clay well remembered, though he had only been through it once, the door led to a secret chamber known simply as the Tree Room. 

The Tree Room was a library-within-the-library, a magic library, where Randolph Price had installed his prize collection of grimoires—those magical books in which you might find the recipe for a potion that turns your brother green or instructions for bewitching your math teacher. 

Alas, campers were seldom allowed to look at the grimoires, let alone remove one.

“You think somebody stole it?” asked Leira, whose mind always went to theft even when she wasn’t contemplating stealing anything herself.

“Oh no,” said Mr. Bailey, appalled. 

“I trust everyone at this camp implicitly.”

“What then?” said Leira.

She was not nearly so trusting herself.

“It must have escaped. Sometimes they do when the door isn’t shut properly. In fact—” 

Mr. Bailey lunged for the open hatch door, where a few old leather books could be seen fluttering around. 

(The magic in the grimoires was such that sometimes the Tree Room resembled an aviary more than a library.) 

“Oh no, you don’t!” 

He slammed the door shut before another literary inmate could escape.

“I only hope it hasn’t flown too far,” he said. 

“Today is not a good day to have a grimoire on the loose! What with strange boats landing on the island… Which reminds me…”

Mr. Bailey checked his ornate and oversized pocket watch, the only one Clay had ever seen with minute and second hands that looked and moved like actual hands. 

At the moment, the minute hand was making a number one while the second hand was making circles with its pointer finger, indicating that it was time to get a move on.

“Patience!” Mr. Bailey scolded his watch. 

“I know we have another two minutes at least.”

“So what book was it?” asked Clay, dreading the answer.

Secrets of the Occulta Draco was still sitting at the bottom of his backpack. 

Maybe it was Flint who had stolen it from the library, but Clay knew if he didn’t return it soon, he was no better than a thief himself.

“A book about dragons,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“One of a kind, absolutely irreplaceable.”

“Dragons?” Clay repeated, his mouth dry.

“That’s funny,” said Leira, eyeing Clay. 

“We were just talking about dragons.”

Clay’s leg started to jiggle with anxiety. 

Was it his imagination, or was the book standing up inside his backpack, as if it were listening to their conversation?

“So this book—it has some kind of dragon magic?” 

Clay asked, trying to sound as casual as possible. 

“Like, how to put spells on dragons or something?”

“I’m ashamed to say I’ve never read it,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“But, yes, that’s my understanding. Supposedly it was written by a famous Dragon Master.”

You mean Tamer, Clay almost corrected but stopped himself just in time.

The night before, he had stayed up late reading, imagining himself a Dragon Tamer from centuries past, but he hadn’t paid much attention to any references to magic or spells. 

He just assumed that the book was fiction, a make-believe memoir. 

If it was an actual grimoire, there was no telling what kind of powers the book might have.

Leira frowned. 

“Wait, back up. Does that mean you think dragons are real?… Or were?”

“Who knows,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“But why would there be so many stories about them, in so many different cultures, if they never existed?” 

He raised an eyebrow, as if daring the campers to contradict him.

“As a matter of fact, the builder of this library, Randolph Price, believed there were once dragons on this very island.”

“Dragons… here?” 

Clay felt a prickling sensation in his neck.

He tried not to look at Leira.

“Why not? One imagines they might like volcanoes.” 

Mr. Bailey smiled. 

It was hard to tell how serious he was. 

“A thousand years ago, a group of Pacific Islanders landed here—we know this from archaeological evidence. Why did they not survive? Randolph’s theory was that they tried to hunt the dragons, and in return the dragons hunted them.” 

He waved his hand, as if to indicate a dragon picking off the islanders in one fell swoop.

Mr. B checked his watch again. 

The second hand was going berserk.

“Now it’s really time for our meeting, but later, if you’re interested, there’s a shelf full of dragon lore upstairs. Under the painting of St. George and the dragon.”

“St. George?” Clay echoed, his head spinning. 

That was the name of Brett’s father’s “operation.”

“Surely you know the story of St. George,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“The first knight to slay a dragon for a princess…?” *

The bottom floor of the library had filled up while they were speaking. 

Most people seemed to be thinking about the meeting ahead, but a few looked at Clay and Leira with open curiosity. 

Clay could tell that Mira was especially interested in what they’d been talking about. 

Leira, of course, gave away nothing. 

She just looked blankly back at her sister.

Buzz was the last to arrive. 

As soon as Buzz entered, Mr. Bailey asked the campers to quiet down, then turned back to the beekeeper. 

“Well, what news have you? Is it a search party?”

Buzz nodded gravely. 

“Yes. A boy fell off the boat, and they say currents may have swept him here. I offered the camp’s assistance.”

“Good,” said Mr. Bailey.

“Every minute counts,” said Buzz. 

“If the boy was lucky enough to make it ashore alive, he is probably very weak and dehydrated. He may be unconscious.”

Or just in a really bad mood, Clay thought.

Mr. Bailey nodded vigorously. 

“We must all help with the search! But please, friends,” he said, addressing the campers, “no funny stuff. I know, in an emergency like this, the rule might seem trivial, but the likelihood that magic will help us find the boy is slim. And the risk of outsiders discovering the true nature of this place—it’s too great. There are certain books here that if people knew they existed… well, they would stop at nothing to get them. And the consequences! It’s not just that they would wreak havoc with love potions, or even that sudden piles of gold would upend the economy. Think of the mass hysteria when the public learned not only that Isaac Newton was a practicing alchemist but that the laws of physics are subject to other laws entirely! And then there are those craven people—monsters I should say, not people—who already know of magic but misunderstand its meaning. If they were to find this library…” 

He shuddered at the thought. 

“I’m sorry to go on at such length, but I hope I make myself understood.”

Mr. Bailey scanned the crowd for nodding heads. 

They all knew which books he was referring to: the grimoires. 

But only Clay and Leira knew that he was thinking of one in particular.

“Good,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“Now, I have a feeling some of you are better acquainted with this island’s hiding spots than I am—don’t ask me why.”

The campers tittered. 

There was an invisible Wall of Trust that surrounded the camp, which campers were not supposed to cross without permission.

Eventually, however, most ventured out into the island wilderness at one time or another—only to find themselves playing a game of hide-and-seek with the bees.

Mr. Bailey smiled. 

“It seems you know what I’m talking about. So, does anyone have an idea where to look? Somewhere the boy might have gone, seeking water or shelter? A spring in the bamboo forest? A cave among the rocks?”

Squirming, Clay did his best to avoid looking at Mr. Bailey. 

Between the book in his backpack and the boy in the cave, he was beginning to feel downright deceitful.

Inadvertently, Clay’s eyes landed on Flint, who had slipped into the meeting after it started. 

Flint was biting his lip, and Clay could see that he was thinking of the cave, too.

“Don’t worry, he’s not going to say anything,” Leira whispered in Clay’s ear. 

“Flint doesn’t care about some boy he’s never met; he only cares about himself.”

She was right. 

Flint didn’t say a word as Mr. Bailey finished talking, and a moment later the campers were being divided into search teams. 

All teams were to return to the library in an hour’s time.

While everyone else poured out of the library, Clay pulled Leira upstairs.

It took them a few moments to locate the painting because it was very small—not much more than a foot wide—and very dark, with swirling gray smoke covering most of the canvas. 

But when they looked closely, the dragon was unmistakable, deep red and scaly, with a twisting tail and sharp talons.

Above the dragon, a knight in shining armor—St. George—sat astride a rearing white horse. 

The knight held a long spear that drove straight into the dragon’s mouth and out the back of his neck, making blood spurt in all directions. 

A gruesome image.

Clay stared. 

“That is…” 

He shook his head, his eyes focused on all the blood.

“Gross?” finished Leira.

In the background, a beautiful woman in a gauzy dress—the princess—was chained to the front of a rocky cave. 

Clay could tell he was supposed to feel grateful that the knight was protecting her. 

And yet there was something about the dragon’s eyes—the way they showed pain and anger and pride all at once—that made Clay sympathize more with the fearsome beast than with the demure princess.

At the bottom of the painting was a brass plaque: ST. GEORGE FIGHTING THE DRAGON, CIRCA 1610 (PAINTER UNKNOWN)

“I thought knights were supposed to be the good guys…” Clay muttered.

“Yeah, right.” Leira laughed. 

“So were cowboys, but ask the Native Americans how they felt.”

“I’m serious. It’s messed up that we’re supposed to think he’s a hero.” 

“C’mon,” said Leira, already walking away. 

“If we don’t get going, somebody else is going to find Brett before we do. Then we’ll all be in trouble.”

“Okay, okay,” said Clay, studying the shelf in front of him. 

It was full of books about dragons—from the dragons of Arthurian legend to the dragons painted on Chinese vases. 

He had planned to slip Secrets of the Occulta Draco in among them, to avoid having to give the book directly to Mr. B, but now that he was here, the plan seemed to make less sense. 

What if Mr. B never found the book and it just stayed there forever? 

Or, worse, what if it flew away?

Besides, he wasn’t done reading it.

As he hurried to catch up with Leira, he glanced back at the painting of St. George. 

He felt almost as though the dragon were looking at him, beseeching him for help.

CHAPTER EIGHT
MISSING

Even if Flint hadn’t told anyone about the cave, it was no longer a safe place for Brett to lie low; there was too much of a chance that he would be discovered by somebody from camp—or, worse, somebody from the ship. 

Clay and Leira knew they had to warn him, but how to get back to the cave without anyone seeing them?

As soon as they left the library, they were accosted by Mira.

“Oh, so cute,” she teased. 

“Look at the little search buddies. You better hold hands so you don’t lose each other.”

Leira looked like she wanted to retaliate, and for a second Clay feared they would break into an all-out fight. 

Instead, Leira ignored her sister and pushed ahead without looking at her—or Clay.

“Whatever.” 

Mira sniffed and turned back to join her own teammates.

The other Worms—a team of three—walked up to Clay, grins on their faces.

“You got your hands full with the ladies, huh?” said Kwan.

Clay shrugged. 

“Yeah. What’s up with them? They’ve been like that for days. I keep getting caught in the cross fire.”

Pablo laughed. 

“What’s up with them? Like you don’t know.”

Clay stopped walking, confused. 

“What do you mean?”

“Seriously, you don’t know what they’re fighting over?” said Jonah.

“No…”

Jonah flicked Clay in the chest. 

“You, you doofus.”

“Really?  Why?”

“Because they like you. Duh.” 

Jonah grinned evilly.

“Yeah. It’s obvious,” said Kwan. 

“You’re the only one who doesn’t see it.”

Clay looked like he was going to be sick. 

“No way, not possible…”

There’d been gossip about him and Leira before, but he always discounted it; they were like squabbling siblings, nothing like girlfriend and boyfriend. 

And Mira was Leira’s actual squabbling sibling. 

So Clay and Mira were squabbling siblings by default.

And there was a difference between liking and liking to squabble, Clay told himself. 

Wasn’t there?

Pablo pointed ahead to Leira, who was beckoning for Clay.

“Look—Girlfriend Number One wants you now.”

“Seriously, you guys don’t know what you’re talking about.”

The last thing Clay wanted to do at that moment was go anywhere with Leira, but he had no choice. 

Blushing red and feeling like the whole camp was watching him, he ran ahead to join her.

They were so concerned with staying out of sight of the other kids from camp that they almost didn’t see the three strangers patrolling Bamboo Bay. 

Just as Clay was about to step out onto the sand—and straight into the patrol—Leira tugged on his arm and dragged him behind a clump of bamboo.

Unfortunately, there was no way to get to the cave without walking on the beach. 

They were stuck.

“This way!” shouted a voice.

Brushing the leaves out of their eyes, the nervous campers watched the island’s new intruders march past, not more than five feet away. 

With their black uniforms and assault rifles, they looked more like a SWAT team hunting for a terrorist than like sailors searching for a missing boy.

“What do they think—that Brett is going to blow up the island?” Clay murmured.

“Maybe they’re afraid of cannibals,” Leira joked in a whisper.

“Maybe. Or maybe they’re not looking for Brett at all.”

“What do you mean? What else would they be doing?”

“Nothing. I didn’t mean anything,” said Clay, unwilling to voice his real suspicion.

They had to wait several minutes before the path was clear. 

Even then, they could see the rifles gleaming in the distance; venturing out into the open still seemed like a risky move.

“Don’t run,” warned Leira. 

“If they see us, we’re just looking for Brett, like all the other kids.”

Clay nodded, and they began to walk quietly across the sand.

One man turned back toward them, shading his eyes with one hand. 

Clay and Leira dove into the beckoning bank of bamboo trees, not a moment too soon.

“He’s just looking at the volcano,” Leira said. 

She didn’t sound completely convinced, though, and they were both relieved when the man turned back around to join the others.

Clay and Leira made it the rest of the way without encountering anyone else, armed or unarmed, but when they got to the cave, they were greeted by an unwelcome sight—something almost worse than running into another patrolman.

Flint.

He was talking into a phone and seemed even more startled to see them than they were to see him.

Casually, he slipped the phone into his pocket, but it was too late. 

They’d seen it, and he knew it. 

Of all the rules at Earth Ranch, the no-technology rule was one of the most serious. 

No screen, no phone—or you go home.

“What are you guys doing here?” he demanded, but the words didn’t come out with his usual cockiness. 

It was the first time Clay could remember Flint sounding flustered.

“We’re looking for the boy—duh.” 

Leira looked him up and down. 

“What are you doing?”

“Same,” said Flint. 

“He’s not here. Turn around. Everybody’s supposed to be back in fifteen minutes anyway.”

Clay and Leira glanced at each other. 

Was Flint telling the truth?

Clay pointed to the cave entrance. 

“What’s in there?” 

He tried to look like he didn’t know, which mostly meant scrunching up his nose and squinting as if he were trying to see something.

“Nothing.”

Flint shrugged.

“Looks like a cave,” said Clay. 

“Can we look inside?”

Flint stared hard at him. 

Apparently, Clay’s act wasn’t very convincing. 

“It was you, wasn’t it? You took the book. I should have known.… Give it back. Now.”

“What book?” 

Clay could feel his leg starting to jiggle with anxiety. 

“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

Flint laughed, his confidence restored. 

“Sure you don’t. Then where were you after Capture the Flag?”

“Nowhere. Lost.”

“Yeah?”

Flint’s eyes glinted dangerously. 

“Come here and say that to my face, Worm.”

“Funny, speaking of faces,” said Leira, stepping between them. 

“Or not really faces, but heads. Or, like, the ears on them…”

Flint looked at her like she was insane. 

“You know you’re talking out loud, right?”

Leira patted her pocket. 

“That thing in your pocket, it looked like a phone.…”

“It’s a satellite phone,” said Flint quickly. 

“It’s the camp’s—not that it’s any of your freaking business.”

“Oh, so it’s no big deal if I ask Mr. B about it?” said Leira.

Glaring, Flint clenched his fists so hard that sparks started to fly out of them. 

Clay feared he would start throwing fireballs—which actually would have been pretty cool, as long as they didn’t happen to land on Clay or Leira.

Leira smiled, almost but not quite sweetly. 

She knew she had won, at least this round. 

“Mind if we go look in the cave now?”

Finally, Flint unclenched his fists. 

“Fine, but be quick. And don’t even think of telling anyone what’s in there. If you do, I’ll know—”

“Thanks,” said Leira cheerily, although Clay could tell she too had been scared. 

A person really had to try hard to seem that composed. 

Especially when Flint was involved.

“By the way, that bamboo stick by your feet—were you using it as a torch?” asked Leira.

“Will you light it for us?”

Flint gave her a look—she was pressing her luck—but he lit the stick on fire with a snap of his fingers.

“Don’t burn yourself,” he sneered, handing it to her.

Without another word, he brushed past them and headed down to the beach.

“That’s not the camp’s phone,” said Leira, watching him go. 

“Wonder where he got it.”

“I wonder who he was talking to,” said Clay.

Leira snickered. 

“Probably some girl.”

“I don’t know. It looked kind of serious.”

“Yeah, I guess. You don’t know what book he meant, do you?” 

She looked at Clay. 

“Or why he thought you had it?”

Clay shook his head, avoiding her eyes.

“Beats me.”

They waited in the cave for about five minutes, calling Brett’s name intermittently.

“Maybe he saw Flint coming and found a new hiding place,” said Leira.

“You don’t think his dad’s guys got him, do you?” said Clay.

Leira shook her head. 

“Think about it: If they’d found him, why would they still be searching the beach?”

“Yeah, unless—”

“What?”

“I just have a weird feeling, that’s all.” 

Clay looked at one of the dragon drawings on the wall. 

“It’s probably crazy.”

Leira followed his eyes. 

“Okay, I think I know what you’re thinking. But just because it’s called Operation St. George doesn’t mean they’re here to slay a dragon—”

“Capture a dragon, then,” said Clay, relieved finally to be discussing it aloud.

“Whatever. First of all, who really believes in dragons?” said Leira. 

“I mean, besides Mr. B. And believes in them enough to hijack a gazillion-dollar cruise ship?”

“What about that footprint Brett found? Isn’t that proof… of something?” 

Clay couldn’t bring himself to say that it was a dream that was making him think the unthinkable.

“Second of all, what about Brett?” said Leira, ignoring him. 

“Are you saying it’s just a coincidence that he got pushed off the ship and swam to the exact island where they happened to be coming to hunt dragons? That’s pretty unlikely, unless…” Leira faltered.

“Unless what?”

“Well, unless it was some sort of setup,” said Leira hesitantly.

Clay looked at her in surprise. 

“You think Brett is in on it?”

“I didn’t say that! I’m not the one who thinks they’re hunting dragons. All I’m saying is that if they were…”

“A missing kid would be a good excuse?”

Leira nodded.

“So maybe that’s why his dad pushed him,” said Clay. 

“It doesn’t mean Brett knew about it.”

“Maybe, maybe not,” said Leira. 

“You have to admit that his story was a little out there.… Either way, it’s time to tell Mr. B.”

“But we promised—”

“I know, but what if somebody from camp finds Brett? We don’t want them just to deliver him to the ship. I mean, if he’s not in on it… Forget about dragons—those guys have guns!”

She had a point.

“All right,” said Clay reluctantly. 

“You go find Mr. B. I’ll stay here a little longer. In case Brett comes back.”

Leira nodded solemnly and held out the flaming bamboo stick.

After she left, Clay paced back and forth, fretting. 

Was it possible Brett had been in on his father’s plans all along? 

Brett could be irritating, sure—very irritating—and the whole bow tie thing was a little weird, but he didn’t seem like a liar… or a dragon thief. 

Clay considered himself a good judge of character. 

Then again, he’d fallen for simple tricks before. 

Take that game of Capture the Flag, for instance. 

Maybe he was just a gullible guy.

To give himself something to do, he walked the perimeter of the cave, bamboo torch held high, examining the darker recesses more closely than he had before. 

Most of the paintings were near the cave entrance, but on his second circuit Clay noticed a peculiar symbol—three red lines joined at the bottom—painted on the wall.

“What the—” 

He reached out to touch the rough stone, and a dot of red pigment flaked off onto his finger.

The symbol looked like a downward-pointing arrow—or maybe an upside-down volcano?—and he looked at his feet to see if it was directing him to something on the ground. 

He didn’t see anything except rock and sand. 

However, when he looked up, he noticed an identical symbol about three feet away. 

And then another and another. 

They were markers, or road signs, painted at regular intervals, directing him deeper into the mountain.

The cave was about fifty feet long and descended so steeply toward the back that he had to dig his toes into the ground to slow down. 

The symbols continued almost the entire way, then stopped, for no apparent reason, before the cave ended. 

Clay held the torch close to the wall where the next symbol should have been, but he didn’t see even a trace of paint.

The cave trail had gone cold. 

Maybe the markers had been directing him toward something that was no longer there.

Just as he was about to turn around, Clay stepped on something squishy, and his foot slid a few inches.

Ick.

What had he stepped on?

Bear poop? 

A frog?

He looked down and laughed; it was a banana peel, and he’d almost slipped on it, like in an old cartoon. 

No doubt Brett had left it there.

What a slob, Clay thought.

And then he thought, Wait a second.…

A slob was the one thing Brett wasn’t.

What had made such a fastidious guy drop a banana peel on the ground like that?

Why had Brett come down all this way, and where had he gone?

Clay shivered. 

It struck him that he was totally, utterly alone. 

If something should happen to him, he might never be found. 

That is, unless somebody else followed the trail of red symbols.

Moving his torch around, he examined the area around him once more. 

This time he saw it: Near the banana peel, there was another red symbol painted on a rock—but this one much larger and much closer to the ground than the others. 

Next to the symbol, half-covered under a layer of sand, was a fossilized footprint like the one Brett had shown Clay and Leira earlier, although this one was even bigger and seemed to be embedded in solid rock.

Clay moved his torch closer and looked from the footprint to the three intersecting red lines painted next to it. 

Then he thought about the painted creatures on the upper cave walls, the ones with the tongues that were not tongues but flames. 

The red lines were a symbol, all right, but only now did he understand what they represented: not an arrow or a volcano but a footprint.

And not just any footprint.

A dragon footprint. 

His mind reeling with the implications, Clay put his own foot where, a millennium ago, the dragon—if it had really been a dragon—had put its foot. 

The footprint was so big Clay could almost have sat down inside it. 

He could only imagine how large a beast would make such a footprint.

As Clay’s weight bore down on it, the rock in which the footprint was embedded began to sink, like a giant stone button. 

There was a groaning sound and the screech of rock scraping against rock.

Above him, the cave wall was moving.

FROM Secrets of the Occulta Draco; or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer

Most Dragon Tamers feel deep empathy for animals of all kinds. 

Long before meeting a dragon, the future Tamer will likely have had a special connection not just with a cat or a dog or a horse, but with a wilder animal as well. 

An owl, perhaps, or a deer or a bear. 

This person and this animal—it will have felt as though they were speaking to each other. 

In fact, they were speaking to each other in the ways that count most.

Alas, dragons themselves do not have much empathy for other animals. 

It is well known, for example, that dragons don’t like cats. 

Tradition has it that this is because dragons are related to birds, however distantly. 

I have another interpretation. 

I think dragons don’t like cats because cats remind dragons of themselves. 

Like cats, dragons are inscrutable creatures, indifferent to others, and their predominant trait is laziness. 

A dragon’s preferred activity at any given moment is to lie in the sun, and if there is no sun, to lie near something warm. 

When they move, dragons tend to move very slowly. 

It is only when forced that they move fast, and then, of course, they move very fast indeed.

CHAPTER NINE
UNDER SIEGE

Leira stopped short about fifty feet from the library tower.

Something was different.

The teepee—that was it. 

The teepee had disappeared. 

Either Mr. Bailey had left, which seemed very unlikely, or the teepee had escaped on its own, which seemed even more un—No, there it was. 

It was just that it had come unleashed and was now hovering behind a boulder, as if it were hiding.

Perhaps it sensed danger.

Three more uniformed guards from the ship were standing at strategic points around the perimeter of the building. 

They carried walkie-talkies on their hips and rifles over their shoulders. 

They looked like they were protecting the place.

But from what? 

Whom were they keeping out?

Unless they were keeping people in.

Leira’s heart started thumping. 

She should have known. 

They weren’t guarding the library; they were laying siege to it. 

She could tell by the way they kept looking into the library windows instead of surveying the landscape.

Her instincts told her to run away, but she couldn’t. 

She had to tell Mr. B what she knew about Brett and his father.

The only tower entrance that wasn’t kept locked was the front door. 

Unfortunately, that was also the most visible point of access. 

The one place the guards were certain to see her.

If the guards had been carrying keys to the tower, she simply could have pickpocketed the keys and let herself in. 

Or perhaps not simply (as a rule, pickpockets prefer crowded spaces with lots of places to hide; here, the conditions were the exact opposite), but you couldn’t always choose your battles. 

Alas, the guards were interlopers, not janitors. 

They had no keys.

Was there another way she could use her skills?

Yes! 

Leira allowed herself a small smile. 

No doubt about it, she was a criminal mastermind.

She hid behind a bush, waiting. 

As soon as one of the guards walked by, she crept out behind him. 

It occurred to her that she’d never stolen anything from somebody carrying a rifle, or any kind of weapon at all, but she squelched the thought. 

There was no reason the rifle should make her job any more difficult—assuming, that is, that the guard didn’t see her.

Quietly, she matched the guard’s stride and then pulled his walkie-talkie out of its holster, replacing it immediately with a small stone she’d picked up. 

The guard never looked over. 

Or down. 

Or any way but forward.

A second later, Leira stepped out of view and exhaled. 

Hopefully, she’d never have to come so close to a gun again.

Pressing down the talk button, she spoke into the walkie-talkie in a deep, low voice. 

“Quick! There’s somebody at the back of the library. I think it’s the boy. Go! Now!”

She released the button, and there was a burst of static.

The two guards who still had their walkie-talkies immediately started running to the far side of the tower. 

The other guard looked around in confusion, then started running as well. 

Not quite believing her success, Leira tossed the walkie-talkie into the grass and walked straight through the front door. 

She would have laughed if she hadn’t been so nervous.

The first person Leira saw inside the library was Nurse Cora. 

Or, more precisely, the first head of hair. 

Nurse Cora was exceptionally short, but her hair, which was straight and silver, was exceptionally long, making her look a bit like a walking wig.

“Nurse C!” 

Leira whispered in her ear, or near where she thought the ear might be.

“Leira?” 

The nurse pulled her hair aside and looked up at Leira. 

“What’s wrong, sweetheart?”

“That’s what I was going to ask!” said Leira. 

She kept her voice low, as one did in hostage situations and, of course, libraries. 

“Is everyone okay?”

“Yes, I think so. Why wouldn’t they be?” 

Cora scratched a spot that might have been the back of her neck. 

“Except for that poor boy from the ship. Nobody seems to be able to find him. I’m afraid he may not have made it.”

“So you’re not all, like, prisoners, then?” asked Leira awkwardly.

“Prisoners? What do you mean?” Nurse Cora frowned.

“Nothing. Never mind.”

Behind the nurse, campers and counselors were congregated in groups, talking about the search. 

Certainly, nobody seemed unduly alarmed. 

Maybe she’d only imagined that the camp was being held hostage. 

Leira felt a little silly for having taken such dramatic measures in order to gain entry.

“Where’s Mr. B?  I have to talk to him about something.”

The nurse pointed down to the bottom floor. 

“That way, but I wouldn’t bother him unless it’s very important.”

“It is.”

The nurse, or rather her hair, nodded.

As Leira made her way down to Mr. Bailey, the library doors opened again, and a suntanned, barrel-chested man barged in. 

Two men accompanied him, rifles at the ready.

“Who’s in charge in here?” he demanded, smiling wide. 

“I want to speak to the commander in chief. Mano a mano.”

“I suppose that would be me,” said Mr. Bailey jovially from below.

“Although I wish these campers would treat me like it. Being a commander in chief isn’t what it used to be!”

Leira tried to attract his attention as he walked past her on his way to greet their visitor, but he appeared not to notice.

“Glad to meet you.” 

The visitor clasped Mr. Bailey’s hand and shook vigorously. 

“Brett Perry, at your service—”

“You’re the father? Oh my, you must be frantic.” 

Mr. Bailey clucked sympathetically while simultaneously extracting his hand from Brett senior’s viselike grip. 

“What a terrible thing to happen!”

“What? Oh, yes… terrible.”

He doesn’t sound very worried about his son, thought Leira, listening from a safe distance. 

Maybe Brett’s father really was as heartless as Brett made him out to be.

Brett senior glanced at the shelves around them. 

“Crikey, that’s a lot of dead trees! Guess nobody here ever heard of an e-book?… Kidding!” 

He slapped Mr. Bailey on the shoulder. 

The camp director cringed.

“But seriously, this Randolph Price character, he was a smart man,” Brett senior continued. 

“Must have been, to make so much money. I should know, right?” 

He chuckled modestly. 

“You can’t tell me he spent so much time and capital building this place just to throw a bunch of old books inside.”

Mr. Bailey reddened. 

“Some of these old books are very—” 

He stopped himself from finishing the sentence.

“Very what? Valuable?”

Brett senior laughed. 

“Don’t worry, they’re safe from me.” 

He picked a book off a shelf and gave it a pat. 

A cloud of dust billowed from it. 

He tossed the book over his shoulder. 

“You couldn’t pay me to take one of these old piles of dust.”

“Well, I’m grateful for that,” said Mr. Bailey drily.

Brett senior smiled affably. 

“Now, tell me, square biz, what did Price really want with this island?”

Mr. Bailey shrugged. 

“To get away from it all, I suppose? Peace and quiet.”

“So he builds himself a house in the path of a volcano?” 

Brett senior scoffed. 

“That sounds real peaceful.” 

His smile disappeared, and his voice lowered an octave. 

From where she stood, Leira had to strain to hear. 

“You know what I think? I think there’s another reason he came to this island, and I think you know what it is.…”

“I don’t understand what you mean,” said Mr. Bailey, stone-faced.

“Don’t be coy,” Brett senior snapped. 

“Where is it?”

Everybody in the library seemed to stand up straight at once. 

Did he mean the Tree Room? 

Leira wondered. 

Had Mr. B been right to worry about the grimoires after all? 

Is that what Operation St. George was about?

“Where is what?” said Mr. Bailey, casually stepping between Brett senior and the banyan tree that hid the Tree Room. 

“I thought you were searching for your son.”

“My son? I know where my son is—at the bottom of the ocean! And unless you believe in miracles, that’s where he’s staying.”

Leira winced.

“Now, tell me where the nest is, old man!”

“Nest?” said Mr. B, keeping his voice level. 

“We have quite a few parrots on the island.…”

“I didn’t come all this way to get pooped on by some noisy little bird.” 

Brett senior’s eyes flashed angrily. 

“I’m talking about the biggest, baddest beast this world has ever seen, and I’m the knight in shining armor who’s going to bring it to its knees!”

A dragon! thought Leira.

Clay was right—he’s hunting a dragon!

With everyone else’s attention fixed on Brett’s brutish father, Leira slipped through the crowd, avoiding her counselor Adriana’s questioning glance, until she found her sister on the other side of the room. 

They squeezed each other’s hands; their earlier fighting was forgotten in the present crisis.

“I’m sorry, I can’t help you with your quest, as noble as it may be,” said Mr. Bailey coolly.

“Oh, I think you can,” said Brett senior.

He jerked his head; his men raised their rifles. 

It was a threat, to Mr. Bailey and everyone else inside the library.

Leira froze.

“Put those things down,” Mr. Bailey said, sounding cross for the first time.

“Oh, we’ll put things down, all right. How many people you got in here? That’s a lot of bullets, but I have plenty to spare. Unless you’ve already changed your mind?”

Mr. Bailey didn’t flinch. 

“If you’re referring to the creature I think you’re referring to, you’re a bit late. There hasn’t been one spotted on this island for a thousand years, and even then—”

“Then you’ll just have to turn back the clock, won’t you?” 

Brett senior interrupted. 

“Aren’t you some kind of wizard? That’s what they say.”

Leira could feel the shock of everyone around her. 

An outsider knew there was magic on the island, or at least suspected it.

If Mr. Bailey was equally surprised, he didn’t show it. 

“It would take a very powerful wizard to turn back time,” he observed.

“Wait!” 

Brett senior raised a finger in the air and put a phone to his ear. 

Leira noticed that the phone looked identical to Flint’s. 

Her eyes narrowed.

“What now?” 

He listened for a few seconds, and then a smile crossed his lips. 

“Okay, don’t move until I get there.”

He clicked off and looked at Mr. Bailey. 

“I might be keeping those bullets after all. But nobody is leaving this building until we get what we came for.”

“And what’s that?” asked Mr. Bailey.

“My son, of course.” 

Brett senior beckoned to his guards. 

“You two stay here.…”

As the doors closed behind Brett’s father, Mira tugged on her sister’s sleeve.

Silently, Mira led Leira away from the crowd and into the library bathroom.

“What are we doing?” 

Leira whispered.

“I have to talk to Mr. Bailey.”

“You want to be trapped in there with those guys pointing guns at you, or do you want to get out?” 

Mira whispered back.

“Look—”

Mira, who had spent more time in the library than any of the other campers, pushed on a section of the tile wall.

After a moment it gave way, revealing itself to be a hidden door.

Leira stared. 

“Are you kidding me?”

Secrets within secrets within secrets—that was the Price Public Library.

She shook her head and peered through the doorway.

There was a dark, rocky tunnel on the other side.

“It leads to the ruins,” Mira whispered. 

“There are matches and candles a few feet down. We’ll be fine.”

Leira just looked at her.

Mira shrugged. 

“Well, maybe not fine. But we’ll be okay. Maybe.”

“What about everyone else?” said Leira. 

“We can’t just leave them.”

“If those guys catch us leading anybody out, they’ll shoot. We can do more good outside.”

Leira looked as if she were about to accuse Mira of being selfish. 

“You’re right,” she said instead. 

“Let’s go.”

She ducked and entered the tunnel without another word.

CHAPTER TEN
UNDERGROUND

It’s not as unlikely as it might seem that Clay and Leira should enter tunnels at the very same time. 

In fact, a vast network of tunnels crisscrossed Price Island, some of them known to the campers, but most not. 

These tunnels, more properly called lava tubes, were formed by rivers of lava so powerful that they bored straight through solid rock; and they provided secret underground roadways for those who wanted to traverse the island without exposing themselves to skies—or eyes—above.

It was wonderfully convenient. 

It was also nature.

The lava tube in which Clay now found himself was not overly long, but it twisted and turned in a way that made for slow travel. 

Thankfully, the tube’s ceiling and walls had been chipped away in places to make passage easier, and footholds and handholds had been carved out of the rock where required. 

There were even a few spots that looked like they were designed to hold lanterns or to store food or equipment. Some very determined people had put a lot of time and effort into the tunnel—under the assumption, no doubt, that they would be using it for many years to come.

He wondered what had happened to them. 

Where their lanterns and food and equipment were now.

As he made his way through the tunnel, though, Clay began to see signs of a different sort of activity.

A distinctly nonhuman sort of activity.

With growing apprehension, he noted claw marks at points where the tunnel had been widened well beyond what would have been necessary for a person. 

Repeated scratching and scraping had created bowl-shaped spaces that would have been too large for even the tallest of human beings but that were perfect for a bigger animal to curl up inside. 

The tunnel called to mind a giant rabbit warren—although Clay suspected that rabbit paws, even giant ones, would not be strong enough to carve through the volcanic rock. * 

Some bigger, sharper-clawed creatures had laid claim to this tunnel.

Much bigger, much sharper-clawed.

Who survived? 

That was the question that plagued him. 

Had the humans outlasted these other creatures? 

Or had these other creatures outlasted the humans? 

And if the creatures had prevailed, as Mr. B had suggested, could one still be alive?

Could there be a dragon—it still sounded crazy to say it—living on Price Island to this very day?

Clay tried to think rationally. 

If there were a dragon on the island, wouldn’t there have been signs? 

Burning trees. 

Animals fleeing in terror. 

The bloody remains of a dragon meal.

The island seemed too small to hold such a big secret.

And yet if there was one thing Clay had learned about Price Island, it was that there was always another surprise waiting around the corner.

At first, the air in the tunnel was fairly cool, except for periodic sulfurous blasts of heat that grew more and more intense as Clay pushed deeper and deeper into the mountain. 

There must have been another steam vent somewhere in the tunnel.

He had been walking for about ten minutes, the tunnel getting hotter and hotter all the while, when that strange, syrupy sleepiness hit him again, with even more force than before.

What was it about these caves that made him so drowsy?

Bleary-eyed, he could see a circle of light up ahead. 

Daylight or flashlight?

Actually, it looks more like firelight, Clay decided. 

Or am I just too tired to tell the difference?

He staggered toward the light, unsure whether the glow was real or a trick of his imagination. 

Then he stumbled, dropping his torch— 

He is flying again. 

Over the bamboo forest.

He is high enough that the forest looks like a field of bright green grass. 

Yet low enough to see the bamboo bending in the wind.

There is a shadow moving across the bamboo. 

It looks like the shadow of an airplane, but an airplane that swings its tail and flaps its wings.

It is his shadow, he realizes.

The tail is his tail. 

The wings are his wings.

The wind bending the bamboo—it is his wind.

He is a dragon, and yet he is still Clay.

(In the same way, he knows he must be dreaming, and yet feels sure that he is not.)

He flaps harder. 

The strength in his wings is tremendous.

The bamboo bends further, bowing to his power.

The island looks different from this height, but he knows where he is. 

Behind him is Bamboo Bay. 

To his left is Mount Forge. 

Soon he will see Earth Ranch.…

Yes, there, just ahead, is the long, crescent-shaped lake.

Lava Lake, it’s called. 

And there, jutting out of the lake, is the boulder, Egg Rock, that the campers have to reach in order to pass their swim tests.

But on the shore, he sees only a few unfamiliar grass huts and a smoldering campfire.  

Where is everything else?

He flies low over the lake, coming up on camp. 

Or where camp should be.

The dome is gone. 

The yurts are gone. 

The barn: gone.

He flies faster.

The palace ruins and the library tower: gone and gone.

He glances back—even the rainbow is gone.

Something horrible has happened.

Zing! 

An arrow whizzes by on his right.

Zing! 

Zing! 

On his left, this time. 

Closer and closer.

Startled, he looks down to the bluff where Price Palace once stood, and sees a man readying his bow to shoot again. 

The man has paint on his face, and he is wearing some kind of skirt or loincloth. 

He doesn’t look like anybody Clay knows from the island. 

Or anywhere else, for that matter. 

He looks like a man from a different world. 

A man from long ago.

That’s why the camp isn’t there, Clay thinks. 

It hasn’t been built yet.…

But by now Clay’s voice is very faint in his head—as if his human self were disappearing over some faraway horizon. 

Soon it is all but obliterated by a terrible animal rage.

He comes down on the hunter like a firestorm.…

CHAPTER ELEVEN
A PRIMAL WHEEZE

Wake up, Clay. You hear me? Wake up!”

It felt like hours, but it was less than a minute later that Clay blinked awake—only to see a bow tie inches from his face. 

He was lying on the ground, and Brett was shaking him, just as Clay had shaken Brett on the beach the day before.

“Wake up!”

“I’m up, I’m up,” Clay groaned.

“You okay?”

“No.… Yes.… Maybe. Just let go of me, would you?”

Brett laughed, letting go of Clay’s shoulders. 

“Now you know what it feels like.… Just don’t puke on me.”

“Why not? I owe you one,” Clay joked groggily.

He smiled—or tried to—and sat up.

They were at one end of a vast, glittering cave, suffused with a soft orangey glow. 

The glow came from the long, fiery lava pit that was about twenty feet away from them.

“Why are the walls so bright?” he asked.

“Look closer—”

Clay leaned forward.

His vision was a little blurry, but the sight was spectacular nonetheless.

“Wow… crystals?”

Brett nodded. 

“Not just that. Diamonds, I think.”

“How do you know?”

“I was into geology when I was little.”

The diamonds were encrusted on the jagged black rock in clusters, like barnacles on a ship. 

They reflected a myriad of colors, but predominantly the orangey light of the lava. 

The color looked oddly familiar to Clay, as if he’d been in the cave before.

“Diamonds sometimes pop up around volcanoes,” Brett explained. 

“They grow over billions of years, way down in the earth’s mantle, where it’s superhot and there’s a lot of pressure. Then one day volcanic eruptions bring them up to the surface, and… bling! It’s an overpriced engagement ring.”

“Awesome.”

Next to Clay was Flint’s bamboo torch, no longer lit. 

He picked it up off the ground, then stood—and grabbed his forehead.

“Head rush, right?” said Brett. 

“It’s the drop in blood pressure. Kind of the reverse situation of a volcano.”

“Yeah, I guess…”

“Careful—”

Clay removed his hand from his eyes—just in time to avoid hitting his head against a rock formation that was hanging from the ceiling.

“That’s a stalactite, in case you’re wondering. As opposed to a stalagmite, which is the one that comes up from the ground. There are lots of stalactites in volcanic caves. Made from dripping lava. They’re called lavacicles.”

“Like icicles? That’s funny.”

Still in a daze, Clay leaned against the cave wall.

Brett smiled. 

“No such thing as lava-lagmites, though. Lava doesn’t really make stalagmites.”

Clay laughed. 

“You know what? You kinda remind me of my brother.”

“How?”

“Just, there’s a lot of stuff in your head, let me put it that way.”

Brett made a face. 

“Too much, you mean, right?”

“What do I know? I can’t keep anything in my head.”

“So you and your brother…” Brett hesitated.

“You’re not really close then?”

Clay looked at him askance. 

“I didn’t say that.… Anyway, he’s a lot older, and I don’t even know where he is right now.”

“Oh… I never had a brother. I had a stepsister. She was my best friend—well, kind of my only friend—but then…” 

Brett made a chopping motion with his hand.

“She was killed?!”

“No! My dad divorced her mom, that’s all,” said Brett. 

“We still text sometimes, but she’s… older now.”

“I know what you mean,” said Clay. 

At their age, girls sometimes inexplicably got older in a way that boys usually didn’t.

It was unnerving.

“Hey, isn’t that a… lava-lagmite right there?” 

Clay pointed at a crystal-encrusted rock formation rising out of the cave floor. 

“See that one that looks like a guy holding a spear?”

“I think it is a guy holding a spear…” said Brett.

“Like, a real guy?”

“A real spear, anyway.”

They walked closer, although not much closer. 

It was extremely creepy.

“See how the end is sticking out?” said Brett. 

“It’s like it was frozen in place.…”

“Or burned in place,” said Clay darkly.

“By lava, you mean?”

“Maybe.”

“What else?”

Clay shrugged. 

He couldn’t quite bring himself to say it: By a dragon.

Brett shuddered. 

“Maybe it’s just a stalagmite after all,” he said hopefully, turning away from it.

“Yeah, maybe.” 

Or maybe not.

“Anyway, I know you probably want to hear me talk about rocks for another five hours, but can we… go?”

“Sure,” said Clay, although he felt strangely reluctant to leave. 

“But can I at least look around a little more first?”

Without waiting for an answer, he started walking toward the lava pit.

As Clay looked from one side to the other, he couldn’t escape the feeling that he’d been there before, and as soon as he got to the edge of the pit, he knew why. 

It was because he had been there before. 

In a dream.

He stared at the bubbles, popping and steaming when they reached the lava’s surface, and he inhaled their familiar sulfurous scent. 

He watched the lava’s constantly blackening and un-blackening crust, remembering how fantastic it had felt to dive underneath…

“Clay? You’re standing a little close, aren’t you?”

“What? Oh yeah.” 

He stepped back. 

“Sorry, I guess I haven’t totally woken up yet.”

Brett looked at him with concern. 

“Seriously, you’re acting kind of weird. I think we should get out of here.”

Clay forced himself to focus. 

“Right. Let’s go, then.”

“Yeah, let’s,” said Brett. 

“The battery in my flashlight went out just before I saw you, but you’ve got one, right?”

“A flashlight? No, just this—”

Clay held up the unlit torch. 

A thin wisp of smoke rose from it.

“You have a match?” asked Brett.

“Nope.”

“How’d you light it before?”

“Someone else did,” said Clay, in a way that didn’t invite further questioning. 

Although, really, Clay wondered, what was the point of hiding magic from Brett anymore?

“So we’re out of luck, then,” said Brett grimly. 

“No way to get back except by feel… which is pretty much impossible.”

“Pretty much.”

“Perfect. Headline: Twelve-year-old boy is pushed off ship and narrowly escapes drowning, only to perish under a volcano.” 

Brett shook his head, as if he’d expected nothing less. 

“At least it makes a good story. Not that I’ll ever get to tell it—”

“Oh, come on. Nobody’s perishing,” said Clay. 

“There’s got to be a way to get this lit again.”

“I know,” said Brett. 

“What if we dip it in the lava? Maybe it will catch fire.”

Clay shook his head. 

“Too risky. The whole stick might burn. What about a piece of paper?” he said, thinking of the way the leaf had caught fire in his dream. 

“Maybe we could light the torch with it.”

“Do you see any paper?”

“Wait, I know!” Clay gestured to Brett’s bow tie. 

“Wouldn’t you be happier with that thing off anyway?”

“No way!” said Brett. 

“This tie is my good-luck charm. It kept me from drowning.”

“Right. And it will keep you from dying under a volcano if we can use it to light the torch,” said Clay. 

“Then it will really be a good-luck charm.”

“Fine,” Brett grumbled. 

He untied his bow tie and tossed it to Clay.

Clay tied it to the unlit torch, then lowered the loose end into the pit.

The tie started smoking before it touched the lava. 

By the time it grazed the lava’s surface, it was on fire.

Clay slowly raised the torch and waved it from side to side.

For the first time he noticed the enormous undulating mounds of rocks that surrounded the entire left side of the lava pit; it looked like a giant toddler had dribbled rocks through his fingers.

“Great,” said Brett, turning around. 

“Now let’s get out of here—”

“Watch out!” exclaimed Clay. 

“Those steam vents there will fry you if you’re not careful.”

He nodded in the direction of two round holes in the closest rock mound. 

A blast of scorching-hot air came out of them.

“See what I mean?”

Brett studied the holes, his eyes narrowing.

“Those aren’t steam vents,” he said quietly.

“Yeah, they are,” Clay insisted. 

“I know you’re the geology guy, but I’ve been on this island longer. Volcanic gas and stuff comes out of them—”

“Do steam vents suck air in before air comes out?” asked Brett, his face pale.

“No…” Clay stuck his hand out.

Brett was right: There was a slight vacuum-like pull.

“Do they move and, uh, twitch, like they’re feeling itchy?”

“No…” said Clay, feeling less confident.

It was true: The holes were quivering. A bit.

“And do… big globs of green goo drip out of them?”

“No…” Clay tilted his head.

He had thought the green stuff was another, smaller rock formation, but now that Brett mentioned it…

“I see what you’re saying,” said Clay, his throat suddenly dry.

He noticed that his leg was jiggling and forced it to stop.

“I’m saying it’s time to run for our lives,” said Brett. 

“Screaming.”

“Maybe we should try backing away slowly first,” said Clay. 

“No screaming.”

“Okay. Slowly. Right.”

Brett took a step backward and—“Aaack!”—hit his head. 

He had backed up against the cave wall.

“I know,” he said, wincing with pain. 

“You said no scream—”

He froze. 

Clay froze.

The mound with the two holes was shaking. 

Rocks and crystals slid off the top in a noisy avalanche.

“Volcanic eruption?” Brett whispered.

“I don’t think so,” Clay whispered back. 

“Maybe an earthquake?”

Brett shook his head. 

No, not that either.

As the mound’s shaking lessened, a terrible sound could be heard blaring out of the two holes. 

A sound that must have been building for a long, long time. 

A sound that seemed to come from the mountain’s very core. 

And yet, you wouldn’t have described the sound as deep; it was more high-pitched.

Have you ever heard of a primal scream? * 

This was like that, but, well… nasal.

A primal wheeze.

The wheeze echoed throughout the cave, louder and louder, until the holes twitched for a last time, the mound heaved upward in a final spasm, and—in one big, powerful blast—sizzling-hot green goo erupted from the holes and splattered the cave.

It was as if the mountain itself had expelled its mucus.

A primal sneeze.

Or, as Brett put it, with a horrified gasp: “It’s like a nose volcano.”

Clay nodded, awestruck. 

“Snot lava.”

Thankfully, they had stepped far enough away to avoid the worst of it. 

Still, backed up against the cave wall as they were, they had not totally escaped. 

Steaming globs of goo dripped from their heads, leaving behind the smell of burning hair, and oozed down their arms, leaving trails of red, blistered skin.

The burns must have hurt, but they didn’t notice. 

Their attention was on something else.

“Are those what I think they are?” Brett mumbled. 

“I mean, they are rocks… right?”

As the last bits of rubble fell away from the mound, revealing a crusty gray under-layer, two round rocks—or what looked like two round rocks—had become visible a few feet behind the two steam-holes-that-weren’t-steam-holes. 

The rocks—if that’s what they were—appeared to be lodged in the mound’s surface, as if they’d been pushed most, but not all, of the way in. 

Deep circular wrinkles surrounded them like ripples, and a line—or more accurately, a slit—divided each one in half.

Brett and Clay watched, riveted, as the slits started to open.

“No, definitely not rocks,” said Clay.

The slits opened further. 

Inside, protected by heavy folds of ancient, armored skin, were two glassy, golden orbs with big, black, diamond-shaped pupils in the center.

The “rocks” were eyes. 

FROM Secrets of the Occulta Draco; or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer

There is an old saying that goes, Just as a camel has two humps, a dragon has two hearts—one good and one bad.

Hogwash.

I suppose it is possible that dragons have two blood-pumping organs in their bodies. 

(I have spent my life among dragons, yet much of their biology remains a mystery to me.) 

But remember this: It is people who have good hearts and bad hearts. 

For a dragon, there is no good or bad. 

There is no should or should not. 

There are only is and is not.

Although dragons are infinitely smarter than people, they are also simpler. 

Push a dragon and it will push back. 

Treat a dragon gently and it will treat you gently. 

Try to kill a dragon and it will try to kill you.

No, it will kill you.

This is not justice. 

Nor is it unjust. 

It just is.

CHAPTER TWELVE

THE RUINS

Perhaps Brett senior was right, and a proximity to dragons was Randolph Price’s secret reason for building such an enormous and extravagant residence on such a remote and treacherous island. 

But dragons or no dragons, the location proved to be a mistake. 

Price Palace may have taken years to complete, but when Mount Forge erupted, it was swept away in minutes.

The massive lava flows leveled not just the mansion but also all the trees and greenery and everything else that surrounded it. 

Now, seventy years later, there wasn’t much left beyond a few columns, a broken wall, and a statue or two.

One of the few traces of the palace that remained fully intact was a square metal drain strategically hidden behind a boulder. 

Actually, it wasn’t so much a drain as a trapdoor, as anybody who happened to see the two red-haired sisters emerging from it that afternoon would have noticed. 

Alas, the sisters themselves couldn’t see much one way or another; the bright light was blinding after the darkness of the tunnel.

“This place always reminds me of the Parthenon,” said Mira, shielding her eyes with her hand. * 

“Or maybe Mount Olympus.”

Leira looked blank and shook her head.

“You know, ancient Greece? Greek gods…?”

Still shaking her head, Leira put her finger to her lips.

“Let me put this in terms you’ll understand,” said Mira. 

“Just think of where Wonder Woman comes from. That island—” **

“Shh!” Leira whispered. 

“I think I hear somebody.”

“Oh!” 

Mira put her hand to her mouth.

They listened; the ruins were silent. 

Then a bird suddenly squawked and flew away.

Mira tapped Leira on the shoulder. 

Somebody was peering out from behind a half-fallen column. 

The sisters peered back.

For a moment, nobody moved.

Then the person behind the column cracked a smile. 

“Oh, it’s you guys!” he said, stepping out into the open. 

“What are you doing here?”

It was Jonah.

He was followed by Kwan and Pablo.

“Jeez. You scared the heck out of us!” said Mira.

“Sorry,” said the Worms in chorus.

Leira explained how she and Mira had escaped from the library. 

“What about you? How’d you get out?”

“We didn’t,” said Kwan. 

“We were late for the meeting because we decided to check a few spots down below Bamboo Bay—in case that kid was a floater.”

“When we saw those guys guarding the library, we made tracks,” said Pablo.

“Good thinking,” said Leira grimly. 

“You didn’t know how right you were about this place being a prison.”

“Yo, dudes—” 

Jonah pointed to a large black helicopter flying overhead.

It had two propellers and looked like it was built for battle. 

“What’s that thing dangling from that chopper?”

“That’s not just a chopper—that’s a Chinook,” said Pablo. 

“Military-style.”

“Okay, if you say so,” said Jonah. 

“What’s that thing dangling from that Chinook?”

“It looks like a train car,” said Kwan, squinting. 

“Or a shipping container.” 

Pablo nodded, as if this had only confirmed his suspicions. 

“They’re probably smuggling contraband onto the island. Like child slaves. Or a nuclear weapon…”

“Not a weapon, a dragon,” said Leira. 

“It’s a dragon cage.”

“A what?” said her sister.

“A dragon cage.”

“They’re smuggling a dragon onto the island?” said Kwan, incredulous.

“Off the island,” said Leira.

“Like a Komodo dragon?” asked Jonah.

Leira shook her head. 

“Like a dragon dragon. Come on, everybody, we have to get to the dragon cave. Now!”

“The where…?” said Mira, who was beginning to worry her sister had lost her mind. 

“I thought you said dragon cage.”

“I did. I’ll explain on the way!”

The campers looked at one another. 

What in the world was Leira talking about?

Even running most of the way, it took them over twenty minutes to reach the vicinity of the cave, at which point they had to slow down to avoid detection.

Stealthily, one after another, the campers scrambled up the rocks above and to the side of the cave. 

They stopped only when they found a place where they were protected by shadow but had a view of the cave entrance and the small plateau in front of it.

The shipping container was on the ground, and the helicopter had already returned with its next piece of dangling cargo: a big yellow crane, folded into itself. 

At the moment, the helicopter was hovering low while Brett’s father’s men worked to unhook the crane from its chains.

“See those holes in the side of the container?” said Leira over the sound of the helicopter. 

“I told you it was a cage.”

“Yeah, a big freaking cage for a big freaking animal,” said Kwan.

“A dragon,” said Leira.

Kwan laughed.

“Whatever you say.”

Mira gestured to three men who were carrying bundles of short sticks into the cave. 

“What’s that? Dynamite?”

“Yup,” said Pablo, who was fairly expert in explosives.

Mira looked horrified. 

“They’re going to blow up the cave? Why?”

Pablo shrugged. 

“Make it wider, maybe? For that… big freaking animal.”

“Say they’re really looking for a dragon, just for the sake of argument,” said Jonah, who kept studying the cave entrance as though he were seeing inside—which his friends knew he very well might be. 

“What makes them think they’re going to find one in there?”

Leira pointed. 

“Him, I’m guessing.”

Below, just outside the cave, Flint was talking animatedly to one of Brett’s father’s men. 

(Brett would have recognized him as Mack, his father’s bodyguard.)

“They gave him a phone,” said Leira. 

“That’s probably all it took for him to sell out the whole camp.”

Jonah’s eyes narrowed. 

“Well, that part I believe.… What a jerk.”

Now free of the container, the helicopter rose higher in the air and started circling at a distance.

As the sound of the helicopter faded, they could hear Flint’s furious voice echoing in the rocky canyon. 

“But they said they’d take me with them! We had a deal!”

“Well, the deal changed, kid!” 

Mack shouted back. 

“Now get out of the way before we blow you up along with the cave!”

Listening, Leira let out a gasp.

“What’s wrong?” 

Mira asked.

“I just realized,” said Leira. 

“Clay is probably still inside. And that kid Brett, too.” *

“They’re inside with the dragon, you mean?” said Jonah.

Kwan stared at him. 

“Wait—you believe her now?”

Jonah pulled at his Afro uncomfortably.

It was Leira’s turn to be surprised. 

“Really? It’s down there?”

Mira shook her head.

“You’re the one who keeps saying—”

“I knew there was supposed to be a dragon,” said Leira. 

“I didn’t know there actually was one.”

Everyone looked at Jonah for confirmation.

“There’s something down there—that’s all I know.”

He glanced again at the cave entrance, then closed his eyes, concentrating. 

The others waited nervously, knowing that his visions were not always easy to summon.

“Well, are they going to be okay?” asked Leira, unable to stand it any longer.

“Yeah… I think so,” said Jonah.

“You think? That’s not good enough,” said Mira anxiously.

“You have to be sure.”

“They’re caught between a dragon and a bunch of dynamite!” Jonah protested. 

“How sure can I be?”

Everybody looked at the mountainside, their faces somber. 

You didn’t have to be psychic to picture all the destruction that was about to be wreaked underneath.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
AMBER

The captain’s quarters on the Imperial Conquest looked much as I imagine the captain’s quarters must look on any other cruise ship: that is, like a suite in an overpriced, poorly decorated hotel. 

(Have I told you how I feel about cruises?)

If you ask me, Captain Abad was fighting a losing battle, but she had done her best to personalize her stateroom with art and mementos from her travels. 
An Indonesian wave-pattern batik was hanging above her bed; a pair of Japanese temple dogs sat on either side of her desk (stone temple dogs, not living ones); and a photo of the captain as a young girl holding a sailing trophy was on the shelf. 

But perhaps the most notable object was the one currently in her hand: a six-foot-long wind instrument carved from a tree branch in the Australian outback.

In the past, the captain had often wondered why she kept this oversized souvenir; she rarely blew on it, and she could never get it to sound the way it was supposed to. 

Now, however, she was considering the possibility that it might have a use after all: to alert her crew to her captivity. 

She doubted that they’d be able to rescue her, but at least they would know the score. 

She put her lips to the mouthpiece and blew experimentally.

All that came out was a sputter.

“Captain Abad?”

Lowering her didgeridoo to her side, the captain looked up to see a smiling young woman in a mint-green velour tracksuit entering the suite. 

“Welcome, Mrs. Perry.”

“Oh, call me Amber, please. I’m not Mrs. Perry yet!”

“And you may call me Sofia. After all, I’m not really captaining this ship anymore, am I?” said the captain with an ironic edge to her voice.

“Oh, don’t say that! I’m sure this will all be over soon,” said Amber, waving away the guard who had let her into the room. 

He retreated a few steps but stopped beside the door. 

He had no intention of leaving the two women alone.

Captain Abad wasn’t sure what to make of her bright and shiny guest. 

Rich men like Brett Perry often had young girlfriends like Amber—the captain saw it all the time on her ship—but she suspected that behind Amber’s toothpaste-commercial smile there were hidden depths. 

Captain Abad hoped there were hidden depths, anyway. 

Her life, and the lives of her passengers and crew, just might depend on it.

“I’m sorry I don’t have anything to offer you,” said the captain.

“Oh, everyone eats too much on this ship,” said Amber airily.

“Yes… usually.”

The only thing the captain had been given to eat that day was stale bread. 

She was being treated no better than a common prisoner. 

Why not just put her in the brig and be done with it?

“What is that… amazing thing you’re holding?” asked Amber.

“It’s a didgeridoo. An aboriginal instrument. Takes great lung power. Would you like to try it?”

“Um, not right now, thank you.” 

Amber uncapped a stick of strawberry lip balm and applied it in one quick motion.

SMOOCHIE,it said in big letters on the side.

The captain thought the lip balm looked—and smelled—like something a four-year-old girl would choose. 

She hid her distaste by leaning her didgeridoo against the wall.

“So, you wanted to see me?” said Amber, recapping her lip balm.

“I just can’t believe you’re mixed up in all this,” replied the captain. 

“You seem so kind, so reasonable.…”

“Compared to Mr. Perry, you mean?” said Amber. 

“Please forgive him. He’s totally out of his mind right now. You know, with his son missing and everything—”

“Of course,” said the captain cautiously.

She wanted to warn Amber that her husband-to-be was a killer who had pushed his own son off the ship, but she had to gain Amber’s trust first. 

“Well, I wanted to say thank you for asking them to untie me, that’s all.”

“Oh, that was just a silly mistake! I mean, imagine—what were they thinking? Is there something else I can do for you?”

“Not for me,” said the captain. 

“But you should know that the passengers are getting restless. Some of them suspect there is more going on than a search for a missing boy. I can hear them outside my stateroom window.”

“Oh?”

“You can only ply them with free booze for so long. Perhaps if you intervened with Mr. Perry, he would cut short this operation of his and concentrate on what matters now, which is finding his son—”

Amber raised her hand. 

“Hold on—because I think we have an itsy-bitsy, teensy-weensy little misunderstanding,” she said, her smile never leaving her lips. 

“I so, so want to make you happy, but you see, the truth is—and I know this might be a surprise—Mr. Perry is only following my orders. Everything he does, he does because I ask him to—that sweetheart! Including, most especially, the work on Price Island.”

Captain Abad stared. 

Amber had hidden depths after all—just not in the way that the captain had hoped.

“I know, crazy, right?” said Amber with a little giggle. 

“Maybe our styles are a little different, but we both command big operations. Deep down, we’re the same, you and I.”

“No, we’re not,” said the captain fiercely. 

“Nobody under my command has ever pushed a passenger off my ship!”

Amber’s smile disappeared for the first time. 

“Brett junior’s fall was a terrible accident,” she said stiffly. 

“But what’s that expression? To make an omelet you have to break a few eggs? Well, if we have to, we’ll break a few more. If there’s any trouble on this ship, any at all, the troublemakers will join Brett junior at the bottom of the ocean… and so will you. Capeesh, Captain?”

“Yes, I think so.” 

The captain shivered. 

You don’t spend your life as a sailor without hearing a lot of bloody stories, but rarely had she heard someone speak so callously of human life.

Amber’s smile returned. 

“Fantabulous! Now, what can we do to calm down all those annoying passengers?”

At that very moment, on a lower floor of the ship, a rabbit sat behind a velvet curtain, nibbling lettuce leaves out of a top hat as if the hat were a salad bowl.

The rabbit was white and furry, a classic magician’s rabbit, and the hat was black and shiny, a classic magician’s hat. 

Sadly, the man pacing back and forth beside them, munching on a small bar of chocolate, didn’t look like much of a magician, classic or otherwise. 

His suit was dirty and rumpled. 

His face pale and unshaved. 

His eyes tired and desperate. 

Judging by his appearance, nobody would ever call him the Amazing So-and-So or the Marvelous Whosie-Whatsit or Somebody-or-Other the Magnificent. 

In short, he was the last person you would expect to see as the headliner on a cruise-ship marquee. 

Nevertheless, this magician—for magician indeed he was—had evidently impressed somebody enough to earn the all-important job of entertaining passengers on the Imperial Conquest, and I ask you to consider the possibility that he might have been a slightly better magician than he looked.

Believe me, he had his share of critics—chief among them himself—without your contributing to the chorus. So please be kind. *

Even on a good day, the magician suffered from performance anxiety, but today his anxiety about the performance ahead was exacerbated by his anxiety about something else. 

(In truth, his performance anxiety was often exacerbated by anxieties of other sorts, but does that mean we should be any less sympathetic? On the contrary.) 

Like everyone else aboard the ship, the magician was alarmed that they were stalled in the middle of the ocean. 

Unlike everyone else, the magician knew a thing or two about the small volcanic island on which the ship’s owner was purportedly searching for his missing son. 

He knew about Mount Forge and Price Palace and Earth Ranch. 

He even knew about the grimoires and the secret library-within-the-library. 

Unfortunately, what he knew did not reassure him; it made him more worried.

The magician stopped pacing and addressed the rabbit.

“Stop giving me the silent treatment! I’m just as upset as you are. I didn’t sleep a wink last night. And you know me, when my insomnia kicks in…”

The rabbit continued to eat, ignoring him.

“How could I have known ahead of time that the ship was headed for Price Island?” the magician protested, as if the rabbit had accused him of ignoring this crucial piece of information. 

“We got on board to track the Midnight Sun’s movements, not predict them!”

The magician reopened the chocolate wrapper in his hand and examined it. 

Not even a smear of chocolate left. 

He crumpled it in frustration.

“Yes, I know they’re building a mysterious giant arena—I was the one who told you that. And our information is that it’s in the desert, not on an island; that’s my point.… What? Sure, I agree that deserts are dry and water is wet.… Correct: There aren’t many deserts in the middle of water. So…? Then why did I think this ship was headed for a desert? I don’t know, smarty-pants. Maybe I thought it would dock, and then they would drive into the desert. How ’bout that…? Aargh. Why I am even answering these questions?!”

The rabbit tossed aside a bad lettuce leaf with its teeth, then tried another one.

“Plus, I always assumed Price Island was so well protected that the Midnight Sun didn’t even know about it! I know, I know, they know everything.” 

The magician sighed. 

“But what am I supposed to do now? I can’t even warn the camp about who they’re dealing with. Earth Ranch communications are so secure that you can’t communicate with them! What do they expect? Carrier pigeons? Owls? I’m sorry, but all I’ve got is you. And last time I checked, you don’t fly. Or swim.”

He stared at the rabbit as if daring the rabbit to contradict him.

The rabbit stared back.

“Don’t look at me like that! I know I’m the reason Clay is there, but Clay can take care of himself,” said the obviously guilt-ridden magician. 

“Did you know when he was ten and I was twenty-two he was already as tall as I was? How ’bout that? It’s almost like he was the big brother! Besides, he probably won’t run into them anyway. It’s not the campers that they’re after.”

The rabbit raised its eyebrows—or would have if it had had any eyebrows.

“No, I don’t know what the Midnight Sun wants—that’s the problem! The books, probably—”

Before the magician could speculate further, his soliloquy was interrupted by a woman’s voice: “I thought I heard somebody back here…”

Amber appeared backstage with a questioning smile.

Startled, the magician pretended to sneeze and shielded his face with a handkerchief. 

Here she was: his old nemesis. 

He hadn’t seen her since middle school. 

Not since before she had joined the Midnight Sun.

How much had she heard? 

Did she recognize him?

“Are you the magician?” she asked.

“Who—who else would I be?” he stammered as he fumblingly put on a pair of sunglasses.

“I don’t know,” said Amber, “but you don’t look like somebody going onstage in half an hour. I don’t mean to be rude, but do you maybe have a change of clothes?”

“Why? I just need to get out of the bright light, that’s all—” 

The magician stepped into a shadow, hoping to further obscure his face. 

“See, isn’t this better?”

“A little…” 

Amber gave him one of her best smiles. 

“I know—why don’t I send someone to press your suit for you?”

“Uh, okay… thanks?” said the magician, relieved. 

It certainly didn’t seem as though she recognized him.

“Don’t mention it. My fiancé owns this ship, and a girl has to make herself useful, right?” Amber stepped closer to him. 

“Do I know you?”

“No!” said the magician, fighting the urge to back away. 

“I mean, I don’t think so.…”

Amber peered at him in the half-light. 

“What’s with the sunglasses? I hope you don’t have a black eye.”

“Just, you know… bad night.”

“Well, perk up,” said Amber, turning away. 

“I need you looking your best. There’s a new schedule. You’ll be doing your show five times tonight.”

“Five times?!” the magician exclaimed, unable to hide his distress.

Amber nodded. 

“And it better be the performance of a lifetime! It’s your job to distract the passengers.”

“From what?”

“From the sad reason that we’re all sitting out here in the ocean, of course,” said Amber gravely. 

“My fiancé’s son…?”

“Oh, right. Sorry about that.”

The magician studied her from behind his sunglasses. 

He had assumed that the son didn’t exist. 

Or at least that his fall had been faked. 

But her face made him wonder if there was some truth to the story.

“So can I count on you?” she asked.

“Sure, okay, but I have one request,” said the magician before he could think better of it.

“Yes?”

“Those chocolates they put on the pillows at night—I’ll need a bowlful of them. And a few carrots for my rabbit.”

“Consider it done,” said Amber, about to head offstage. 

She turned back, frowning. 

“Are you sure we don’t know each other?”

“Oh, I doubt we run in the same circles!” 

The magician fiddled with a box of props, hiding his face. 

“Actually, I don’t run in any circles,” he joked nervously. 

“I just… run in circles.… Get it? Like a dog runs in circles?”

Before Amber could respond, an aide walked up to her.

“Ma’am? Mr. Perry sent a message. He said they’re inside the mountain, and they found proof—it’s in there.”

Amber’s smile returned. 

“That’s amazing news! I have to call France. Antoinette will want to hear right away…”

After Amber walked off, the magician looked down at the rabbit, which was burrowed inside the hat.

“How ’bout that? Ten years later and just as horrible as ever. How does she stay so… perfectly the same?” 

The magician shuddered; the encounter with Amber had rattled him.

“Do you remember that school talent show when I made her disappear?” 

He sighed.

“Best trick ever. Too bad it didn’t last.…”

The rabbit peeked its head out of the hat and glanced anxiously around the stage.

“Don’t worry, she’s gone,” said the magician. 

“The real question is, what’s inside that mountain and why is she so excited about it? For some reason, I don’t think it’s library books.…”

The magician pulled the crumpled chocolate wrapper out of his pocket and looked at it as if it might hold the answer to his question.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
DRAGON SLEEP

According to popular myth, a Musca domestica—also known as a housefly—lives for only one day.

In reality, assuming no hungry frog catches up with it, a fly may live two weeks or longer. 

Still, two weeks is a short life span compared to those of many other animals. 

Tree frogs, for example, tend to live for over twelve years—plenty of time to catch the housefly’s descendants, and the descendants’ descendants’ descendants.

Now, dogs live slightly longer on average than frogs. 

No doubt you have heard that one dog year is equivalent to seven human years? 

I don’t know that this is true in the strictest sense, but let’s say it’s true in a general way, and that a twelve-year-old dog is like an eighty-four-year-old person. 

Going back to houseflies for a moment, an equivalently elderly fly would be twelve days old.

That is, twelve days from our human perspective. 

A lifetime from the fly’s perspective.

In an equation, the relationship might look like this: 

12-DAY-OLD fly = 12-YEAR-OlD dog = 84-YEAR-OLD human

OR

1 fly DAY = 1 dog YEAR = 7 human YEARS

1 fly day = 365 dog DAYS = 2,555 human days

To put it another way, a human lives seven times as long as a dog and 2,555 times as long as a fly.

Of course, it would be presumptuous of me to pretend that I could ever truly understand a dragon’s perspective on humans. 

(Dangerously presumptuous if a dragon ever got wind of it.) 

I think it is safe to say, however, that to a dragon, a human is more like a fly than like a dog. 

Certainly, we are more like flies in terms of our life spans.

That is, just as a person lives 2,555 times as long as a fly, a dragon lives 2,555 times as long as a person.

More or less.

If there is such a thing as dragon years to compare to human years or dog years or fly years, the equation would go something like this: 

12-DAY-OLD fly = 12-YEAR-OLD dog = 84-YEAR-OLD human = 214,620-YEAR-OLD dragon

OR

1 DAY fly = 1 dog YEAR = 7 human YEARS = 17,885 dragon YEARS

OR

1 fly DAY = 365 dog DAYS = 2,555 human DAYS = 6,528,025 dragon DAYS

How do I know? I don’t. 

It’s just guesswork based on my readings on the subject. * 

Nobody really knows how long dragons live, or even if they age at all.

I am reasonably certain, however, that dragons sleep; and the question I am coming to via this very circuitous route is the following: If a dragon day is 2,555 times as long as a human day, then for how long does a dragon sleep?

Assuming a human sleeps, on average, eight hours each night, and that a dragon sleeps proportionately as long, then a dragon would sleep for an average of 20,440 hours, or 851.6 days, or 2.3 years.

Unfortunately for my math (which has never been very good), I have reason to believe dragons sleep much, much longer than that. 

In effect, they hibernate.

How long? 

I’m glad you asked. 

From a physiological standpoint, dragons’ closest cousins appear to be reptiles. 

(Although, of course, dragons predate modern reptiles by thousands of years.) 

Most snakes and lizards hibernate—or, technically, brumate—for almost half a year. 

That is, half a human year. 

That is, half the time it takes for the earth to circle the sun.

Assuming a dragon hibernates proportionately as long, it would sleep for 1,277.5 years at a stretch.

And that, I think you’ll agree, is a long time by any measure.

Which takes us back to our story.

When we left them, Clay and Brett were being regarded through a pair of big golden eyes. 

I don’t think you will be surprised to hear that these eyes did not belong to a fly or a dog or even a person.

They were dragon eyes. 

And they had just opened after a long dragon sleep.

How long? 

I can’t say that it was 1,277.5 years exactly, but that number should give you an idea.

I don’t know about you, but the longer I sleep, the crankier—and hungrier—I am when I awaken.

Our friends probably should have run when they had the chance.

Now their backs were against the wall.

Literally. 

The cave wall.

They looked at the dragon. 

The dragon looked at them.

Its eyes were the size of headlights. 

Its head was the size of a car.

A small car, perhaps.

But for a head, big enough.

The dragon’s many fangs stuck out of its mouth, zigzag-style, forming a zipper of teeth that made the creature look like a mutant crocodile.

A very big mutant crocodile.

The zipper hadn’t opened.

Yet.

And the rest of the dragon? 

Still hidden under mounds of rocks.

For the moment.

We are going to die.

Clay and Brett had the same thought. 

There was no need to say it aloud. 

The dragon was going to eat them, and that was that.

They might as well have been staring at a ticking bomb.

Tick.

Tick.

Do nothing.

That was the main piece of advice Clay had garnered from Secrets of the Occulta Draco. 

Already, he could tell that the author was right: Doing nothing in the presence of a dragon was much harder than it sounded. 

It was like mindfulness. 

Only with his life hanging in the balance.

Or, rather, his death.

Tick.

Tick.

In his thoughts, Clay kept returning to his dreams. 

They weren’t really his dreams, he felt sure; they were the dragon’s dreams. 

He, Clay, had only viewed them as a guest.

He remembered the dragon’s fury at the hunter who had shot the arrows at the dragon, the fire that raged in the dragon’s belly. 

Had the dragon really killed the hunter? 

What about the dead body in the cave—the one with the spear? 

Was that the last time the dragon had seen a human being?

Yes or no, it didn’t bode well.

Tick.

Tick.

Clay found himself staring deeper and deeper into the dragon’s eyes. 

He felt as though he were falling into them. 

He fought to stay aware of his surroundings—he suspected that the dragon was hypnotizing him—but he kept feeling drowsier…… and drowsier…

Tick.

Tick.… and draggier…… and draggier…

Tick.

Tick.… and dragon-ier…… and dragon-ier…

Tick.

Tick.

Until he could have sworn he wasn’t a boy anymore, but rather a dragon looking at a boy and about to—Bzzzz. 

Bzzzzz. 

Bzzzzzzzzz.

A buzzing sound brought him back to the present.

“What’s that?” 

Brett whispered.

“It sounds like a fly,” said Clay.

It was a fly. 

Buzzing around one of the dragon’s eyes. 

The dragon blinked and shook its enormous head, spilling more rocks to the ground, but the fly kept coming back, attracted to the shiny golden eye as if it were an eighty-watt lightbulb.

Although quite big by fly standards, the fly was microscopic by dragon standards. 

Even so, Clay could tell the dragon was irritated.

Very irritated.

Why didn’t the dragon just swat the fly away? he wondered. 

Maybe it was too small for the dragon’s big claws to catch?

And then the fly stopped flying——and landed on the dragon’s nose.

The dragon shook its head again. 

More rocks and pebbles flew off. 

But not the fly.

The dragon’s big nostrils—now very obviously nostrils and not steam vents—twitched.

“Uh-oh. I think he’s going to sneeze again,” Clay whispered.

“So do something,” said Brett.

“Like what?”

“I don’t know—make the fly go away?”

Clay took a breath, reached out, and—CLAP!—smashed the fly between his palms.

Right in front of the dragon’s eye.

Brett stared at him in shock. 

“Do you have a death wish?”

“Sorry. You said—”

“I didn’t mean like that.”

The dragon didn’t blink. 

But its eyes narrowed a bit. *

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
BOOM!

Clay just stood there in the lava cave, unable to breathe, imagining the many and various ways the dragon might kill him.

For example, the dragon might slash him open with a swipe of a claw.

Or throw him against the jagged rocks.

Or toss him into the pool of lava.

Or step on him like an ant.

The dragon might breathe fire on him, toasting Clay like a marshmallow until he was a perfect golden brown, and then nibble him slowly, bit by bit.

Or did the dragon prefer its humans more well-done?

Maybe the dragon would keep breathing on Clay until he was fully roasted, his skin charred to a crisp, and then swallow him whole?

Or maybe the dragon would just scare him to death. 

He was already halfway there. 

And then Clay’s mind cleared.

Or not cleared, exactly—more like the opposite.

Fogged. 

His mind fogged.

Vogged?

All thoughts of his death were gone, replaced by another thought.

Well, not a thought exactly, more like a feeling.

Not his own feeling, but a feeling he was experiencing nonetheless. 

In the way one experiences a temperature or a smell. 

Something that’s around you and that affects you but that doesn’t come from you.

It was an odd and amorphous feeling, but also a comforting feeling.

If he had to put it into words, the words would have been these: Thank you.

The dragon was thanking him for getting rid of the fly.

Or rather, since it clearly wasn’t a question of politeness, or of the dragon actually thanking anyone, maybe a better way to explain it is that the dragon was thankful, and he, Clay, was feeling the dragon’s gratitude.

Then again, I doubt dragons ever feel anything as human as gratitude, so the whole thing is a bit of a mystery.

“What’s going on?” Brett asked, unable to contain himself any longer. 

He’d been watching the strange silent exchange between Clay and the dragon, and naturally he was feeling very antsy about the outcome.

“I don’t know,” said Clay hesitantly. 

“I think maybe I… made a friend?”

Brett looked at him quizzically. 

“With me? Seems like a funny time to mention it, but… thanks?”

“With the dragon.”

“Oh, right.” 

Brett’s smile faded. 

“I mean, obviously—”

“Oh, c’mon—” said Clay, his eyes never leaving the dragon’s.

“No, no, I get it,” said Brett. 

“So maybe he doesn’t say much, but if you like the strong, silent type, and you can live with all the nose lava…”

Clay shook his head. 

“Dude, you saved my life, waking me up back there. I think that makes us friends.”

“It does?” 

Brett brightened—whether out of happiness at being called dude or being considered someone’s friend, or both. 

“Of course, you coming down here in the first place counts as saving my life, so—”

“We’re even? Sounds like friends to me,” said Clay.

“But we’re really not, because you saved my life on the beach, too.” 

Brett’s smile vanished again. 

“Does that mean I’m unfriended?”

Clay put his finger to his lip. 

“Shh. The dragon’s telling me something.”

“With his eyes?”

“Yeah. Or his mind, I guess.”

“Well, I hope his mind is saying that he decided not to eat us,” said Brett, who knew he should stop talking but couldn’t. 

(I sympathize.) 

“Tell him I recommend a nice eggs Benedict. It’s my go-to for brunch.”

“Oh! Sorry!” said Clay to the dragon, turning red.

“What did he say?”

“She, er, I think,” said Clay, concentrating.

“Or, no, actually, it says dragons aren’t really male or female. We have no use for such things, it says.”

“It talks in the royal we?”

“Um… yeah,” said Clay, not entirely certain what that was. * 

“And I think it’s saying we’re supposed to call it they, not it.… Sorry! I mean, we’re supposed to call them they. It’s more polite.… Also, they say I made a mistake. We’re not friends. I mean, the dragon and me aren’t friends, because friends are equals, and dragons are infinitely superior to humans.” Clay paused, as if listening, then continued.  

“But don’t worry. It… they won’t eat us. Humans don’t taste very good. We have no flavor. Dragons prefer game animals. Deer… antelope…”

Brett stared, incredulous. 

“The dragon told you all that?”

“Kind of. It’s hard to explain. I just know it. Almost like I thought it myself.”

“Okay. I understand. Sort of…” said Brett, although clearly he didn’t. 

“So does… they have a name?”

Clay nodded. 

“Ariella.”

“Ariella? That’s pretty girly, isn’t it, considering…? Hey, maybe it’s the dragon’s drag name!” Brett laughed at his own joke. 

“Get it, drag-dragon?” *

“Well, I think Ariella is an awesome name for a dragon!” said Clay pointedly. 

(If his mind talked, it would have been saying, Don’t upset the dragon, you idiot.) 

“And by the way, aren’t you the one who’s always complaining about bullies?”

“I wasn’t being a bully! That was just a dumb joke.”

Clay shrugged. 

“Just sayin’.”

“Besides, how can you bully a dragon? That’s ridiculous,” said Brett. 

“Anyway, it’s… they’re the one saying we have no flavor! I take offense to that.”

“Hi, Ariella,” Clay said softly. 

“Still itchy?”

Bravely, he reached out and scratched the dragon on the nose. 

The dragon’s scaly skin was so tough it was like scratching on the cave walls. 

And yet Clay felt sure that the dragon appreciated what he was doing.

Until suddenly the dragon batted Clay away with its nose and reared its head back.

Clay and Brett ducked, ready for the dragon to sneeze again.

Instead, the dragon rose on its forelegs and shook itself like a giant dog shaking off water. 

As Brett and Clay watched in wonder, centuries of accumulated rocks and crystals cascaded off the dragon’s back.

Gone were the mounds of rocks that had taken up so much of the cave. 

In place of the mounds stood the dragon in all its glory. 

So gray and craggy was the great beast that it looked like it had been carved out of the very cave it had been sleeping in.

The dragon shook itself again, this time spreading its wings a bit and giving its tail a powerful swish.

More rocks fell to the cave floor, but with the rocks came something else. 

It looked like pieces of crust. 

Big, gray, rocky pieces of crust. 

Falling off the dragon’s legs and tail.  

Soon, even bigger pieces were falling from the dragon’s stomach and back, like sheets of old, rusty armor.

“What’s it doing now?” whispered Brett.

“I don’t know… shedding its skin?”

“Like a snake?”

“I guess…”

Without warning, the dragon opened its mouth. 

And for a moment Clay and Brett were looking at a long, forked ruby-red tongue and row upon row upon row—three rows!!!—of jagged yellow teeth.

They held their breath, fearing the worst: The dragon had decided to eat them after all!

The dragon opened wider and wider and then—so fast they felt a wind blow—clamped its jaws shut.

As Clay and Brett exhaled with relief, the dragon’s face peeled off in a single, horrible piece that perfectly preserved the giant, terrifying shape of the dragon’s eye sockets, nostrils, and jaws. 

The old gray skin hung briefly from the dragon’s neck before dropping to the ground like a discarded Halloween mask.

“Whoa…” murmured Clay.

A new dragon stood before them, with scales as pale and shiny as a pearl, so smooth and slinky that you could hardly see where one scale began and another ended.

“I know, it’s—I mean, they’re—” Brett addressed the dragon, stammering. 

“I mean you’re beautif—” 

BOOM

Clay and Brett jumped as the sound of an explosion somewhere above echoed in the cave.

The dragon didn’t move, but its scales bristled as if a strong wind were passing through them.

“What was that?!” said Clay.

“Sounds like my dad,” said Brett grimly. 

“He’s always exploding stuff. Except usually he’s looking for oil. Not dragons.” 

BOOM

There was another explosion, louder and closer than the first.

The dragon kept standing still. 

Its scales bristled again, this time briefly flushing red—a sign, Clay was sure, of anger or agitation.

“Leave,” he urged the dragon. 

“Go! Please! Now!”

“Yeah, Ariella, shoo!” said Brett.

Clay gave him a look. 

“I can’t believe you just told a dragon to shoo.”

“Well, why isn’t it moving? Ariella, bad people come! Scary! Away! Go!” said Brett, louder this time.

Clay put his fingers to his lips and listened to some inaudible signal coming from the dragon.

Suddenly, his eyes glazed over, and his voice became low and gravelly. 

“There is no need to shout, puny human creature.”

Brett looked at him. 

“Clay? This isn’t really the time for jokes.”

“What have we to fear from humans?” 

Clay continued in the same strange voice. 

“Humans presumed to hunt us before and paid the price. Your kind is no more a threat to us than a fly.” *

“Sorry, it’s—it’s just that—” 

Brett stammered.

“You are scared, human?”

Brett nodded.

“Then you may stand behind us.”

Clay opened his eyes. 

“We should stand behind Ariella.”

“I know, you just said—or they did.”

“You can hear Ariella, too?” asked Clay, confused. 

Evidently, he did not remember having Ariella speak through him.

“No… never mind,” said Brett. 

“Let’s just do what the dragon says—”

They stepped behind the dragon’s legs as another explosion rocked the cave, this one closer still. 

BOOM

Closer than close.

Smoke billowed in the cave, and rocks fell around them. 

A bright, fiery light briefly blinded their eyes.

They could hear voices cheering. 

“Woo-hoo!” 

“Look at those crystals!” 

“What is this place?!”

As the smoke cleared, Clay and Brett peered out from between the dragon’s legs.

Brett’s father’s crew had entered the cave. 

Holding long spearguns in their hands, and fully outfitted in fireproof suits and helmets, they looked as though they were ready to wage battle on the moon.

They shouted when they saw the dragon.

“There it is!” 

“What a monster!” 

“Look at those claws!” 

“And that tail!” 

“Stay back!”

In answer, the dragon—its skin now glowing red-orange like the lava—reared its head back and—RROOOAAR!!!—roared. 

An intense burst of blue fire scorched the ceiling of the cave and carried all the way to the entrance to the tunnel.

It was a warning blast only.

But, oh, what a warning.

“Oh, man, that was sick,” murmured Clay, awestruck.

“Did you see how blue the fire was?”

“They say blue flames are the hottest,” said Brett. *

The terrified dragon hunters all took a step backward. 

They seemed to be unsure whether to run or fight.

“They’re all going to die, aren’t they?” Brett stared at them. 

“I wonder if my dad’s with them. I mean, sure, I hate him, but…” 

He faltered, stricken.

Clay looked from Brett to his dad’s crew, hesitating. 

Then he put his hand on the dragon’s leg. 

“Ariella, please give them another chance,” he whispered, unsure whether the dragon could hear him, let alone understand him. 

“Just scare them again—I’m sure they’ll run.”

The dragon narrowed its eyes to slits, looking from Brett to his father’s crew, very much as Clay just had. 

The boys waited nervously. 

Judging by the low growl coming from the dragon, it wanted nothing more than to firebomb every last person in the cave.

Finally, the dragon let out another big fiery roar, even bigger and fierier than the last.

But still a warning only.

The hunters did not run.

“Now!” somebody yelled. 

“Shoot—now!”

Suddenly, hundreds of long shining darts sailed through the air toward the dragon, like a school of needlefish attacking a sea monster.

Most rebounded off the rocks, echoing throughout the cave.

More than a few hit the dragon, however.

Enraged, the dragon stood on its hind legs and, aiming lower now, let loose a tremendous blast of fire that singed the tops of the hunters’ helmets. 

It was not yet a direct attack, but it was something more than a warning; it was a roar to remember.

There were screams and shouting. 

The arm of a man’s suit caught on fire, but his closest neighbor quickly doused it with a fire extinguisher.

The dragon stared, its big golden eyes blinking. 

Clay could tell that Ariella was even more taken aback than he was. 

In the dragon’s experience, humans were not a fire-resistant species.

“Again!”

The hunters took advantage of the dragon’s surprise, releasing a second, longer volley of darts. 

More of them hit their target this time, tearing the dragon’s wings and hobbling its legs.

Once again, the dragon breathed fire upon its assailants, but the fire came out as a cough—more a protest of pain than a lethal weapon.

“Again!”

Clay could feel each dart as it pierced the dragon’s tender new skin, and he could feel the drugs working their dark magic in the dragon’s veins. 

He was filled with rage and despair—whether his own or the dragon’s, he couldn’t tell—until he found himself slipping under.…

Fear not—we shall see you again. 

The thought came to him unbidden and very faint, as if it had floated a great distance.

Brett brought him back with a sharp pinch on the arm. 

He pulled Clay into the shadows.

The dragon had fallen to the ground, and its long tongue was hanging out of the side of its mouth in a way that to Clay seemed like an insult to the majestic beast.

The hunters rushed over to it with heavy loops of chain in their hands, as well as the big muzzle Brett had seen on the ship.

“Quick! Before it wakes it up!” 

“I’m not getting near that thing!” 

“Just do it before I shoot you in the eye!”

As Clay and Brett watched, three very nervous men clamped the muzzle onto the sleeping dragon’s jaws while others wound chains around its legs and wings.

“We have to stop them,” said Clay, horrified.

“How, exactly?”

“If I can just get that muzzle off, then Ariella can—”

“First of all, you’ll never get the muzzle off,” said Brett. 

“Second, the dragon is totally unconscious—”

“I know, and it’s my fault,” said Clay, miserable. 

“I said those guys would run away.”

“Uh-huh, and if you hadn’t, most of them would be dead now. And they probably would have caught Ariella in the end anyway.”

Now the dragon was being wrapped in an enormous tarp that connected by way of a big hook to a heavy iron chain.

The chain went taut, and the tarp started sliding across the rocky floor. 

Somewhere outside the mountain, a crank was turning, pulling the dragon slowly out of the cave.

Whooping, the victorious hunters held on, catching a ride.

Brett and Clay watched, aghast, no longer bothering to hide.

At the sight of them, one of the men said something into his walkie-talkie, and the dragon abruptly stopped moving. 

The man tore off his helmet and took a step toward our heroes. 

He resembled Brett only a little bit around the eyes, yet Clay knew immediately it was Brett’s father.

He stared at his son in astonishment. 

“Brett?!”

“Yep. And still alive. Disappointed?”

“Very funny.” 

Brett senior turned to his crew. 

“This here is my son, everyone! We found him after all. What are the chances? Today is my lucky day!” 

He turned back to Brett and opened his arms. 

“Come here and hug your father. I was so worried, I can’t tell you.”

Brett looked at him suspiciously. 

“I don’t think so.”

“What do you mean?” said his father, still smiling. 

“Not still sore at me, are you?”

“You could say that.”

“Okay, if that’s how you want to play it,” said Brett senior, dropping his arms. 

“What the heck are you doing here, anyway?”

“Stopping you from taking that dragon,” said Brett boldly. 

“What do you think?”

Brett’s father’s face turned cold. 

“What are you going to do, threaten to call PETA again? A lot of good that did.”

Brett’s lip trembled a little, but there were no tears. 

“You tried to kill me. A lot of good that did.”

“Oh, get over it,” Brett senior scoffed. 

“I know how good a swimmer you are. If I wanted to kill you, I would have done it another way.…”

“Nobody’s that good,” said Brett. 

“I was just lucky.”

His father opened his mouth to argue, but then, looking at his companions, he switched gears.

Apparently, he didn’t want to fight with his son in front of them. 

“Let’s forget about all that. This is a chance to start over. Promise me you’ll quit this save-the-whales nonsense. Then we’ll go home and—”

“And watch you put a dragon’s head on your trophy wall? No, thanks.”

Brett senior laughed derisively.

“Is that what you think this is about?”

“Isn’t it? Or is the dragon being sold as belts and wallets? Oh, and let’s not forget those dragon-skin purses and shoes. They’ll be to die for!”

“If you bothered to ask instead of making your wild accusations, you’d know that Amber’s friends are building a dragon sanctuary in the Kalahari Desert.”

“A sanctuary?” echoed Brett, dubious. 

“Didn’t you just tell me to stop saving the whales?”

“Only so you don’t look like an idiot. Amber is a dedicated environmentalist. The whole idea is to prevent the species from going extinct.”

“So that’s why you shot a thousand darts into the dragon?”

“Come on, would you want to travel with a dragon that wasn’t muzzled and chained?”

Brett shrugged. 

His father had a point.

“I still can’t believe you’re doing all this to save an animal. I’m sorry, but it doesn’t really sound like you.”

“Oh, don’t worry, I haven’t gone completely soft.” 

His father laughed. 

“There’s money involved, too—plenty of it.”

“Well, that’s a relief,” said Brett.

His father reddened. 

“What’s wrong with win-win? Look, I’m sorry if I said some harsh things. I want to make it up to you, the… accident and everything.” 

He gestured to the dragon behind him. 

“After we get this guy where he’s going, we can go on another trip. Just you and me.”

“Really?”

“Really. Wherever you want.”

Brett wavered. 

Was it possible his father meant it? *

“Hey, boss. Look—” 

One of the other men pointed to the dragon. 

It was moving under the tarp.

“Well, shoot it again, moron!”

As another volley of darts hit the dragon, one of its long claws poked through the tarp and shredded a few inches of the heavy canvas. 

Then the dragon’s body jerked a last time, and its movements subsided.

Clay shuddered in sympathy. 

Brett looked from him to the dragon to his father.

“It’s now or never,” Brett senior said to his son. 

“You don’t come with me, chances are you’re not getting out of here at all.”

Brett hesitated, torn between conflicting emotions and loyalties. 

“Will you take Clay up, too?”

Brett senior glanced at Clay. 

“Sorry. He’s seen too much already. Can’t afford the risk.”

“Then never!”

Now Brett had proof his father was every bit as heartless as he had suspected.

Clay looked at him in surprise. 

“That’s crazy. At least one of us should—”

Brett shook his head. 

“We’re friends. Friends stick together, right? Not that I would know…”

“Very principled,” sneered Brett senior. 

“And very stupid.”

“Maybe so,” said Brett. 

“But before you go, there’s something I’ve been wanting to tell you.…”

“Yeah? What’s that?”

“Your hair plugs look terrible. You’re not fooling anybody.”

Brett’s father clenched his jaw.

“They just haven’t grown in yet. Soon my hair’s going to be thicker than ever. You’ll see. Or maybe you won’t.” 

He raised his walkie-talkie to his mouth.

“Take us up!”

He continued to bark orders to his crew as he was pulled into the tunnel along with the dragon.

The last words Clay and Brett could hear were, “Yes, I said light it, darn it!”

Thirty seconds later, there was another explosion and—BOOM!!!!—the entrance to the tunnel collapsed behind him.

Shocked, Clay and Brett watched rocks tumble around them; the way they’d come into the cave was no longer the way out. 

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
UP

They stared, unmoving, at what had once been the tunnel entrance. 

There was nothing left but rubble. 

And clouds of dust.

Brett kicked a boulder with his foot. 

It wouldn’t budge.

“We’ll never be able to clear all these rocks away,” he said, the implications just beginning to dawn on him.

“Nope, never,” Clay agreed, expressionless.

“Which means we can’t get out.”

“Yup.”

“Which means we’re stuck here forever,” said Brett, who was getting more and more alarmed by the second.

“Yup,” Clay repeated.

“Which means we’re going to die down here after all!”

“Yup.”

“Yup!? That’s it?! You’re not going to tell me we can at least try to move the rocks or something?”

Clay looked at Brett, then back at the pile of rocks. 

There was no doubt the situation was bleak. 

Worse than bleak. 

He had been so concerned about the dragon’s fate, he had forgotten to worry about his own.

“We can try to move them,” he said. 

“Won’t do any good.”

“Then maybe there’s another way out?” Brett pressed.

Clay shook his head. 

“I don’t see one.”

“Can’t you at least be upset about it?”

“I am. I just—”

“What? Don’t care?” said Brett, exasperated. 

“I mean, sorry if you detect a note of panic in my voice, Mr. Cool Guy, but personally, I’d rather not die down here. I happen to have a very different plan for my death that involves a few delectable items of the food variety, such as—”

Clay smiled sardonically. 

“Those Jell-O parfaits?”

“Yes! Those Jell-O parfaits, and then—”

“Shh.” 

Clay put his finger to his lips. 

“Did you hear that?”

“What?”

“I thought I heard somebody calling my name.”

“I didn’t hear anything.…”

They looked around the cave. 

There was no sign of anyone else—or of any activity at all.

“Could it be Ariella, like, mentally calling you?” 

Brett suggested tentatively.

Clay tilted his head, considering. 

“Nah, the voice was coming from somewhere in this cave. And, anyway, Ariella must already be out of the mountain by now.”

“Wait a second!” said Brett, getting excited. 

“Think. There has to be another way out of here. How did Ariella get in, in the first place? Not through the tunnel. They had to bomb the tunnel to make it big enough for a dragon, right? And if there’s another way in, then…”

“There’s another way out,” said Clay, catching on. 

“I like your thinking.”

“But where is it?” 

Brett anxiously scanned the cave walls.

Clay nodded to himself. 

“I know where.”

“Well…?” 

Brett prompted.

“Up.”

Brett glanced upward. 

His excitement vanished.

“Um, you’re not talking about that, are you?”

There was one visible opening: a fissure in the ceiling. 

It was large—more than large enough for Clay and Brett, large enough for even a dragon—but it was about thirty feet high, and directly above the lava pit.

Beyond the fissure: darkness.

“Uh-huh.”

“Seriously?”

“It’s our only option,” said Clay.

It was the way he’d flown out in his dream. 

That was why he felt sure it was the right way to go. 

Of course, that was the same dream in which he’d shot out of the volcano and rocketed into outer space. 

Maybe not the easiest dream to replicate.

“You’re insane,” said Brett, despairing once again. 

“We’ll never get up there.”

“I can help,” said a muffled voice.

Brett turned around, startled. 

“Who said that!?”

“I’m down here, you idiots, behind the boulder on your right.”

They looked down into the rubble behind the boulder, expecting to see one of Brett’s father’s men. 

Instead, it was Flint, immobile and covered with dust and soot.

One of his legs and both of his arms were lodged under rocks. 

His torn, filthy backpack lay in front of his mouth. 

He tried to nudge it away with his chin.

“I said I can help—if you get me out of here,” he said.

“Jeez. You okay?” said Clay. 

The fire-happy junior counselor was the closest thing Clay had to an enemy, but he didn’t necessarily want to see Flint buried alive.

“Oh, yeah, never better,” replied Flint. 

“You should try lying under ten tons of rock. It’s a blast.”

“Sorry for asking. Flint, this is Brett. Brett, meet Flint.”

“Pleased to meet you,” said Brett. 

“Guess, um, I won’t try to shake your hand?”

“Ha-ha.” 

Flint peered up at Brett through dusty eyelashes. 

“You’re the missing guy?”

Brett nodded. 

“Well… I was.”

“I didn’t think you were real.”

“That’s okay. My dad didn’t, either.”

“I know what you mean.” 

Flint started to laugh, then grimaced in pain. 

“Come on, dudes. Get these rocks off me. I have ropes and stuff, but you guys won’t be able to use them by yourselves. That climb out of here is going to be hella hard.”

Clay shook his head scornfully. 

“Like we would just leave you there if you couldn’t help us? Not everyone’s as much of a tool as you are.”

“Easy to call me names when I can’t move,” said Flint, spitting dust out of his mouth.

Clay turned to Brett. 

“Come on.”

They bent down and started pushing rocks away from Flint, until there was just one left—a big rock sitting on his leg.

They tried to push it off.

“Ow! You trying to kill me?” 

Flint complained. 

“Stop pushing. Just pick it up… gently!”

The rock was heavy, but together Brett and Clay lifted it off Flint’s leg and dropped it onto the ground next to him. 

There was a collective sigh of relief.

“Can you move it?” Brett asked.

Flint rolled his leg a little. 

“Yeah, it’s fine—I’m fine,” he said, even though it was pretty obvious that he wasn’t.

Wincing, he stood up. 

He looked like he’d been through a war, bloodied and bruised all over.

“What were you doing down here, anyway?” 

Clay asked him suspiciously.

“Trying to stop those guys. Same as you.”

Clay’s eyes narrowed. 

“Oh yeah? I thought maybe you were helping them.”

Ignoring Clay, Flint leaned over to pick up his backpack, and—“Aaah!”—cried out. 

“Just a sore muscle,” he said quickly. 

“No big deal.”

“Remember Leira and me saw you talking on the phone?” said Clay. 

“You weren’t telling them where to go?”

“Maybe I was.” 

Flint pulled a climbing rope out of his backpack and started uncoiling it. 

“And maybe I changed my mind.”

“Maybe you changed your mind?” 

Clay shook his head, trying to control his rage. 

“The coolest, raddest, most awesome creature in the world—probably the last one in the world—is gone. Because of you—”

“And you did such an awesome job protecting it, huh?” said Flint, tying a grappling hook to the end of the rope.

“Man, you are such a—”

“Can you two not fight right now?” Brett interjected anxiously. 

“It’s time to get out of here.”

“Just what I was thinking,” said Flint. 

“Now, watch and learn, boys—”

With more than a touch of his old swagger, he began twirling the rope high above his head. 

If the movement caused him pain, he didn’t show it. 

The shiny hook reflected the orange glow of the lava, and as he twirled the rope faster and faster—faster than seemed humanly possible—Clay and Brett watched the hook blur into a perfect glowing circle.

Murmuring a few words to himself, Flint finally released the rope; the hook end flew straight into the gap in the cave ceiling and locked onto the rocks inside. 

It would have been an astonishingly precise hit even for someone who wasn’t injured. 

A hole in one.

Brett shook his head in wonder. 

“How did you—?”

“How else are we supposed to get up there,” said Flint, tugging on the rope to make sure it was secure.

“Yeah, but that was—”

Flint laughed. 

“Magic?”

Oh well, Clay thought. 

At least it was somebody else who’d said it, not him.

“Brett doesn’t know about you,” he explained to Flint. 

“Or the camp or anything.”

“Huh? Oh. Oops.” Flint laughed again. 

“Well, that was nothing. Check this out—”

Making a gun with his hand, he shot a series of bright white flares out of his fingertip. 

They died out only after they’d entered the gap in the ceiling and illuminated the craggy space above.

“Now we know where we’re going,” said Flint with a grin.

A moment later, they were off. 

And up.

Even Brett, who had terrible memories of trying to climb ropes in gym class, was pleasantly surprised to find himself rappelling out of the lava cave as if he’d been doing it all his life. 

Of course, it was a little alarming to see the rope burn away behind him like an oversized candlewick, but he tried not to look.

Things got much trickier when they got through the fissure into the cave above.

Flint had shot more flares out of his finger to light up the space—these flares lingered much longer than the previous ones—and they could see that while the cave was not very wide, it was very, very tall. 

In front of our heroes: forty feet of near-sheer rock. 

The only opening: at the top.

“Now what?” Brett asked. 

“No way are we going up that rock.”

Without answering, Flint tied the three of them together with another rope and started doing just that.

Swallowing, Clay and Brett followed.

It was slow going, and very nerve-racking, but it wasn’t quite as difficult as they had expected. 

That is to say, it wasn’t impossible. 

When they imitated Flint’s movements.

Whenever Clay tried to find his own spots to hold, he noticed that the rock was cold and slippery in his hand; and at one terrifying moment, he actually started to fall—only to be stopped by Flint’s rope. 

In contrast, whenever he grasped a handhold that Flint had established for them, the rock was almost searingly hot, but Clay’s grip held firm, and he was able to keep ascending. 

It was as if Flint were melting the rock just enough to make it mold to their fingers.

Brett, who was following close behind Clay, seemed to notice the same thing. 

“I didn’t think I was such a good climber,” he said, breathless with exertion but somehow managing to keep up. 

“And I’m really not, am I?”

“Let’s just say I wouldn’t count on being able to do this again,” said Clay. 

“At least not without Flint leading the way.”

About twelve feet above them, Flint was pulling himself up the last portion of the rock face. 

There was nothing overtly magical about what he was doing, but every once in a while, when his hand touched rock, sparks would fly from his fingers, as if they were knives on a grindstone.

“Does everyone at your camp have talents like he does?” Brett asked.

“Like Flint? Not exactly,” said Clay. 

“Some of us don’t have much talent at all.”

It was clear that he meant himself.

“You? You talk to dragons!” said Brett, incredulous. 

“I would call that a talent.”

Clay shook his head.  

“A lot of good it does now that the dragon’s gone.”

His anger rising again, he looked up at Flint.

“Hey, how did you hook up with those guys, anyway?” he called out, as if they’d just been talking about it. 

“Brett’s dad and everyone.”

“It wasn’t his dad,” Flint called back.

“It was this woman his girlfriend works for.… Come on, pick up the pace!”

Clay found Flint waiting for them on a blissfully wide ledge. 

His expression was impatient, but Clay suspected that he needed the rest. 

His injuries were catching up with him.

“What woman?” asked Brett, hoisting himself up to join them.

“I don’t really know anything about her,” said Flint. 

“Not even her name.”

Clay frowned. 

“But you met her?”

“When I was eleven. I was back in court for lighting a fire—just a few flames in a toilet, but they acted like I tried to burn down the whole school.”

“People tend to take fire seriously,” Brett noted. 

“It’s a thing.”

“Yeah? What about the whole you-need-fire-to-have-a-civilization thing?” retorted Flint.

“You were trying to build a civilization in a toilet?” said Brett.

Flint glared. 

“Up yours.”

Clay smirked.

Flint started to walk along the ledge toward what looked like the entrance to another tunnel. 

Far below was the opening into the lava cave. 

Clay and Brett followed, trying not to look down.

“Anyway, all the shrinky-dinks testified that I was a nut job,” said Flint. 

“And they were ready to lock me up, when this woman arrives like a freaking fairy godmother or something. Most beautiful woman I ever saw, but kind of spooky. Her face never moved, and she always wore these white gloves.… She told me I wasn’t crazy; I was special.”

“You’re pretty special, all right,” said Clay.

Brett laughed.

“You guys better watch it,” said Flint angrily. 

“I’m the one leading you out of here, remember?”

“Don’t worry,” said Brett. 

“We remember.”

“So then what happened?” asked Clay. 

Flint’s description of the white-gloved woman had sounded familiar to him; he wasn’t sure why.

“Then, next thing I know, she works some kind of voodoo, the charges against me are dropped, and I’m being shipped off to Earth Ranch. Learn everything you can, she says. And don’t ever mention me. For three years, those were my only instructions. But this summer she gives me the phone and says, They trust you now. Start looking. Look everywhere. You’ll know it when you see it. And when I saw the dragon paintings, I knew—”

“You were a spy,” said Clay. 

“A traitor.”

“So? I’m supposed to feel bad about it?” Flint scoffed.

“Mr. B, Buzz, everybody—they all make great speeches about the Other Side and the sacredness of magic and all that, but they aren’t protecting magic; they’re just scared of it.”

“Maybe,” said Clay. 

“Or maybe they know what they’re talking about.”

“Whatever. This woman, she says there are no rules when it comes to magic, because magic is the breaking of rules.”

It was indeed the entrance to another tunnel that they’d seen, but a very steep and very narrow tunnel. 

There was no other way to go, however, so Flint shot a few more flares into it, and in they went.

“If she’s so smart, what made you change your mind?” Clay asked, keeping pace with him now. 

“Feeling guilty?”

“As if!” Flint snorted. 

“She said they would make me a Dragon Tamer, but she lied.”

“Nobody can make you a Dragon Tamer,” said Clay. 

“You are one or you aren’t.”

Flint stopped and pointed at Clay. 

“So you took the book after all! I knew it.”

“What do you care?” said Clay. 

“You’ll never see a dragon again anyway.”

“Maybe you won’t,” said Flint.

“Come on, face it, she’s done with you. And it serves you right.”

Flint’s eyes burned. 

“Nobody’s done with me until I say they are. The Midnight Sun will be sorry they ever met me.”

“The Midnight Sun?” 

An unexpected chill traveled up Clay’s spine.

Flint nodded, and started walking again. 

“That’s their group. International secret society or some junk like that. Bunch of creeps in white gloves. I only ever heard the name once, but I never forgot.”

The Midnight Sun.

When Clay was little, he had heard his brother talk about the Midnight Sun a few times with his friend Cass—always in hushed tones, and only when he thought Clay wasn’t listening. 

As a rule, Max-Ernest was compulsively talkative. 

The Midnight Sun must have scared him quite a bit for him to stay so quiet about it.

Could it be the same Midnight Sun that had sent Flint to Earth Ranch and that was now in possession of Ariella? 

Was that why the description of the white-gloved woman had sounded so familiar?

“What does the Midnight Sun want with a dragon?” he asked.

“My dad said they were taking the dragon to a sanctuary,” Brett volunteered.

“Yeah, that’s what they call it.” 

Flint’s laugh was more of a wheeze. 

He didn’t sound good. 

Or look good. 

“It’s where they’re going to breed their army.”

“Army?” Brett and Clay repeated together.

“Yeah, an army of dragons, they said. Hundreds of ’em.”

“What are they going to do with hundreds of dragons?” Clay tried to imagine it. 

A single dragon had seemed difficult enough to manage. 

He thought of the Secrets of the Occulta Draco.

What did the book say? 

He who has power over dragons has power over us all.

“Whatever they think they’re going to do, they’ll do it over my dead body,” said Flint. 

“I’m not letting them take that dragon without a fight.”

“Oh yeah? How are you gonna stop them?” said Clay.

“I thought you read the book. If you master the Occulta Draco, you can do anything.”

“But you have to have a dragon for that,” said Clay. 

“And the only dragon around has gotta be on that boat by now. For all we know, they’re already sailing for the Sahara or wherever-the-heck.”

“Then we’ll just have to move faster, won’t we?” said Flint.

The tunnel was almost level now, and Flint took the opportunity to increase his speed.

“Are you serious?” Clay asked, struggling to keep up. 

“You really want to go after them?”

Was it possible his enemy was becoming an ally?

“You know it. Are you in?”

Clay hesitated.

“Yeah,” he said finally, a little flame of hope flickering inside him. 

“I’m in.”

“Cool. Shake?” 

Flint extended his hand, but when Clay reached for it, Flint pulled his hand away and mimed slicking back his hair.

“Oh, that’s a new one,” said Clay, but he laughed anyway.

“Look!” said Brett, catching up with them. 

“Is that sky?”

About fifty feet ahead there was an opening; the tunnel was coming to an end.

“I think so,” said Clay, excitedly striding toward it. 

“Flint—we going fast enough for you now?”

There was no answer.

“Flint?”

The other boys turned around. 

The talented teenager was lying on the ground behind them, the contents of his backpack strewn beside him. 

They rushed back.

“Jeez, you okay?” asked Clay.

“Does it look like I am?” said Flint, his eyes closed.

Brett scanned him for new injuries.  

“What happened? Is it your leg?”

“It’s my everything.”

Clay and Brett eyed each other. 

Their exit from the mountain was about to get a bit harder.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

A CRASH LANDING

I knew there was a reason I kept this thing around, thought Captain Abad.

Holding her didgeridoo like a baseball bat (or maybe, since she was from Australia, I should say like a cricket bat), Captain Abad took a few practice swings.

digeridoo vs baseball bat vs cricket bat 

She didn’t normally resort to shattering windows—she was a grown woman, after all, and a captain at that—and she couldn’t help worrying that her precious didgeridoo might get scratched, but these were exceptional circumstances. 

The guard who’d been posted beneath her window all day had just left, presumably to go to the bathroom or call for a replacement, and she might not have another opportunity to break out of her quarters.

Ready to swing, the captain took one last look outside—then froze with her didgeridoo suspended over her shoulder. 

The guard had returned, and he was motioning to a helicopter that was hovering a mere thirty feet or so above the Imperial Conquest. 

Dangling from the helicopter was the rusty shipping container that she’d last seen occupied by a twelve-year-old boy who would later be pushed off the ship. 

She wondered what was inside the container now. 

Had the mysterious Operation St. George been a success? 

What prize was so valuable that a gang of criminals had commandeered an entire cruise ship to attain it?

The container was being lowered onto the ship’s loading deck when, suddenly, it started swinging wildly in every direction.

As the captain watched, transfixed, the container door slid open and a long, jagged reptilian tail slipped out. 

What kind of animal would have such a tail?

A giant crocodile? 

The tail swung back and forth like a whip, thwacking the sides of the container and causing it to jerk this way and that.

Outside the captain’s window, people started screaming and running in every direction. 

The helicopter pilot tried to rectify the situation by pulling back from the ship, but that only made the container swing more violently. 

SMASH! 

The captain heard the container collide with the ship at a spot high above her, probably taking out the ship’s radio antenna and radar equipment, by the sound of it. 

She shook her head in dismay. 

It would be that much harder to call for help once she escaped.

She figured that the container had become unhooked from the helicopter.  

But, no, there it was again a moment later, swinging into view, the strange tail still sticking out the door. 

As the container careened by her window, she caught a quick glimpse of the thing that was thrashing around inside. 

The captain’s heart beat wildly in her chest, and she wondered for a moment if she were losing her grip on reality. 

The great beast’s jaws were muzzled and its wings were bound, but there was no mistaking it for anything other than what it was. 

And yet——a dragon?!?

The captain considered herself a rational, scientifically minded person; she was not a fan of fairy tales and fantasy stories. 

On the other hand, part of being a scientist, as she understood it, was accepting empirical evidence when it was presented to you. 

You didn’t simply deny the existence of a thing because it didn’t fit into your theory of the universe; the existence of the thing meant that your theory of the universe was flawed. 

And a dragon—a real dragon—what an amazing discovery that would be!

For a dragon, you might do far more than commandeer a cruise ship. 

You might travel to the ends of the earth. 

There was still enough of the adventurer in Captain Abad for her to feel more than a small tingle of romance at the sight of the ancient beast.

Here be dragons, it said on the old maps. 

Well, here be one at last.

Then—CRASH!—there were screams and the sound of shattering glass.

The container had collided with the ship again, this time landing much nearer to the captain’s quarters.

Wasting no more time, she took advantage of the noise and mayhem to smash her window open. 

As she leaned out and looked aft, she saw that the container had crashed into somebody’s stateroom. * 

It had broken free from the helicopter and was now hanging off the stateroom’s small balcony. 

The container hung there for a second longer; then there was a terrible creaking sound, and the balcony gave way. 

The container smashed through two more balconies before coming to a crash landing on the deck below.

It is a terrible thing for a captain to watch her ship being destroyed, but Captain Abad’s first thought was not for her ship but for her passengers. 

As far as she could tell, no one had been hurt. 

The screams she’d heard were screams of terror, not pain.

The dragon, though—how had it fared in the fall? 

Now that the dragon was on her ship, she was responsible for it; it was her passenger.

Craning her neck, she could see the dragon standing half in and half out of the container. 

Its wings were still bound together, and at least one chain was still bolted to the container floor, but somewhere along the way the dragon’s muzzle had come off.

The dragon looked upward, it eyes briefly meeting the captain’s, and then let out a tremendous roar, sending a ball of fire high into the sky.

The captain was awestruck. 

And terrified. 

One more breath like that in the right direction and the entire ship could go up in flames.

The dragon was just raising its head again when it was shot with hundreds of darts. 

It staggered, then fell to the ground, chains hitting the container with a clang.

The captain didn’t know whether she was more relieved for her ship or more furious for the dragon.

The intercom crackled, and in a moment Amber’s cheerful, reassuring voice could be heard. 

“Ladies and gentlemen, please do not be alarmed. There has been an accident involving a shipping container, but it is now under control, and there have been no injuries reported. Some people are saying that they saw a giant lizard inside the container, but of course they saw no such thing. A coiled
fire hose got loose, that is all. There was no swinging tail.…”

Captain Abad shook her head. 

If anyone could get people to disbelieve their own eyes, it was Amber. 

But there was no time to worry about what the passengers thought. 

The captain had to reconquer the Imperial Conquest before it was too late.

Doing her best to avoid the broken glass, she climbed out the window and lowered herself to the deck below.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
TITANIC MEETS GODZILLA

As an author, I regard my characters as my children. 

(Especially those who happen to be children.) 

In my eyes, they can do almost no wrong. 

Nonetheless, I am duty-bound to report the truth about them, and all in all, it hadn’t been the Worms’ finest hour.

Nor Mira’s. 

Nor even, I confess, Leira’s.

From their mountaintop hiding place, they heard multiple explosions. 

They knew that all kinds of terrible things were happening inside the volcano, and they knew that their friend Clay was stuck right there in the middle of it.

And yet what did they do?

Nothing.

Even when the dragon was dragged out in chains and shoved like the world’s biggest sack of potatoes into the shipping container, they only watched in horrified wonder. 

It was hard enough to comprehend that a mythical creature like a dragon might live and breathe like any other animal. 

And then that a beast so magical and mighty could be treated so ignobly!

For a moment, it had looked like the helicopter might be unable to lift the combined weight of the container and the dragon, and our friends were briefly hopeful that the dragon would get to stay on the island after all. 

But after a few false starts, the container was airborne, and the caged dragon was on its way.

In defense of my not-so-brave-acting characters, I will point out that there was no way they could have stopped the helicopter from where they were—at least no way that I can imagine. 

As for saving Clay, the only way into the mountain that they were aware of was guarded by at least twenty grown men and women, all well armed with firearms and explosives and who knew what else. 

In contrast, there were only five on the campers’ side, none over the age of fourteen, and none of them armed.

Only when the sun started to go down did Leira, who, by virtue of being the first to know about the dragon, had become group leader, tell the others to stand up and get moving. 

By then Brett’s father’s crew had dispersed, and she felt reasonably confident that the campers were alone.

They were about to head down to see if there was still a way into the cave, when Jonah stopped his friends and pointed.

“Looks who’s there!”

Three people were silhouetted high up on the mountain. 

It was clear from their shapes and sizes that Clay, Brett, and Flint had all made it out of the volcano alive.

Alive—but in Flint’s case, barely so.

With Clay and Brett propping him up from behind, Flint had just managed to walk the last twenty feet of the tunnel. 

The walk took all his strength, and as soon as he was in the open air, he collapsed to the ground again, his face sweaty and pale.

“Gotta get up,” he mumbled to himself. 

“Gotta get…”

But when he tried to push himself back up, he couldn’t.

“Dude. Stop,” said Clay. 

“We’ll carry you.”

“No, no, I’m okay,” Flint said, gasping for breath.

“I’ll catch up. Go get the dragon!”

Clay and Brett looked at each other, then back at Flint.

“Sorry, man, but you are not okay,” said Clay.

“Definitely not,” agreed Brett. 

“Besides your collarbone, I’m guessing fractured rib, broken tibia, and a sprained ankle, to start. And then there are the internal organs.…”

A moment later, Clay and Brett were doing their best to carry Flint down the mountain as promised—first carrying him over their shoulders, then holding his legs and arms, then carrying him over their shoulders again.

Nothing quite worked. 

Eventually, they had to start dragging him.

“Hope we’re not hurting you too much,” said Brett.

Flint looked at him through heavy-lidded eyes. 

He seemed about to make a sarcastic rejoinder, but the effort to speak was too much.

After the other campers had joined them, and Brett had been introduced to everyone, and all of them had expressed their amazement about the events of the day, an argument erupted about what to do with Flint. 

The campers had so little love for the pyromaniac junior counselor that there were several half-serious jokes about leaving him to fend for himself, just as he had suggested.

“He left you on the beach, remember?” said Kwan to Clay. 

“Turnabout is fair play and all that.”

“Yeah, but I could walk by myself,” said Clay.

“C’mon. There has to be somewhere safe we can put him.”

“Nowhere is safe for Flint if he doesn’t get some medical help,” said Leira.

“But Nurse Cora is locked in the library with everybody else,” Mira pointed out.

“Then that’s where we have to take him,” said Clay.

And let’s make it fast, he thought.

Far out in the ocean, he could see the Imperial Conquest. 

It looked as though it was still anchored. 

But for how long? 

He had to get on the ship before it sailed too far away. 

He owed it to Flint. 

And, more important, to Ariella.

In groups of three, the campers took turns carrying Flint, walking close together in single file with him over their right shoulders, like lumber at a construction site.

Somehow, they managed to get him to the vicinity of the library without dropping him—and without seeing anyone from Brett’s father’s crew.

But at the library tower two of the armed men were still standing watch. 

Evidently, Brett’s father still feared that someone would try to stop him.

And someone will, thought Clay.

“Perfect,” said Kwan, gritting his teeth. 

“Now what?”

“No worries, I’ve got this,” said Pablo. 

“Clay, give me a hand, bro—”

Two minutes later, this is what you would have seen if you were one of the men guarding the library: a teenage boy, Flint, stumbling toward them, waving and yelling, “Take me inside! I need to see Nurse Cora!” 

Until he fell to the ground, unconscious, and very possibly dead.

If, however, you had witnessed the same event from a vantage point behind Flint, you would have seen something else entirely: Clay and Pablo propping him up while Clay shouted Flint’s lines and Pablo manipulated Flint’s hands and arms like a puppet’s. 

As soon as he dropped to the ground, they dived under a bush. 

Just in time to escape the guards’ notice.

Hidden by the shrubbery, the campers watched as the guards walked over and prodded Flint with their rifles. 

They appeared to be arguing about what to do with him, and for a moment Flint’s fate was uncertain, but finally the guards lifted Flint by the arms and dragged him into the library.

The kids high-fived one another. 

Success!

“It’s just like a crime show,” whispered Mira.

“You know, when the bad guys are too afraid the police will catch them if they walk into a hospital, so they leave somebody bleeding on the hospital steps instead?”

“I thought we were the good guys,” said Jonah.

“We are. And now we’re going to prove it,” said Clay. 

He looked at his friends. 

“Who here knows how to get on that boat?”

“You mean the cruise ship—why?” said Kwan.

“Yeah, why?” echoed Pablo. 

“Those things are just giant floating displays of everything that’s wrong with the world… mass consumerism… destruction of the ecosystem… old people…”

“Wait till you try the Jell-O parfaits before you dis cruise ships,” said Brett. 

(It sounded as though he were joking, but you and I know that he wasn’t. Or wasn’t quite.) 

“And by the way, you’ll be old, too, someday.”

Leira sized up Brett and Clay. 

“You guys want to go after that dragon, don’t you? Nice idea, but—”

“Totally cray cray?” volunteered her sister.

“I was going to say a total disaster in the making,” said Leira. 

“But, sure, cray cray works, too.”

“They’re trying to build a dragon army; and if they do, trust me, it will be a total disaster,” said Clay, thinking again of the Secrets of the Occulta Draco. 

He who has power over dragons has power over us all.

“Don’t you need, you know, two dragons to make more dragons?” said Kwan.

“Maybe they’re going to clone it,” said Brett.

“Either way, Clay’s right. It sounds bad,” said Leira.

“And who knows what they’re going to do to the dragon in the meantime!” said Clay. 

“We have to save Ariella from those guys.”

“Ariella? That’s the dragon’s name?” said Jonah. 

“Sweet.”

Pablo frowned. 

“Do you mean like sweet sweet, or like sarcastic sweet, or like Man, your ride is sweet sweet?”

Jonah shrugged. 

“All of the above?”

“Question,” said Kwan. 

“How’re you going to save your dragon when people are guarding it with guns? And it’s on a ship with thousands of people that’s going to take off at any moment, if it hasn’t already? Sorry, but my life is worth more to me than some magical fantasy animal that I didn’t even know existed until two hours ago. I mean, sure, I played Dungeons and Dragons a few times, but…”

“Are you finished?” asked Jonah.

“Because there’s another possibility you’re not thinking about. What if the dragon escapes on its own?”

“Yeah, so?” said Kwan. 

“Then it’s all good, right?”

“No. Think about it—the dragon breathes fire, right? If it escapes, it could torch everyone on board.” 

Jonah closed his eyes, seeing the scene in his mind. 

“Even if the dragon didn’t do it on purpose, it could burn the whole ship. We’re talking Titanic times ten.”

“Or maybe Titanic meets Godzilla,” Mira reflected morbidly.

Pablo laughed. 

“I’d like to see that.”

“You’re deranged,” said Leira.

“True. That could all happen—full-on Dragon-maggedon,” said Kwan.

“But it could happen if we’re the ones who free the dragon, too. 

The difference is, if we’re there, we’ll be the first ones to get toasted.”

“You don’t understand,” said Brett. 

“The dragon won’t hurt anyone if Clay is there. He’s Ariella’s friend.”

“Friend?”

“Not really,” said Clay quickly. 

“But yeah, kinda.”

Leira looked at him. 

“You really think you can keep that dragon from burning the ship?”

Clay smiled weakly. 

It was true that Ariella seemed to like him—in a dragon sort of way—but that didn’t mean the creature would be inclined to listen to him. 

Unless—“No problem,” he said. 

“I just have to do a little reading first—”

Flint had sounded very confident about the power of the Occulta Draco. 

Clay only hoped Flint was right.

“Oh, don’t worry,” said Kwan sarcastically. 

“There’s plenty of time for reading. You just sit down with a book while the rest of us swim across the ocean, hijack a giant cruise ship, get shot by armed thugs, and then get eaten by a dragon.”

“So you’re saying you’re in?” Clay asked.

It had only been a short while since Flint asked him the same question.

Kwan sighed. 

“Yeah, I’m in. I’m always in.”

“Cool.”

“Fantastic—I can’t wait to see all you magic kids in action,” said Brett. 

“But did I miss something, or have we still not figured out how we’re getting across the ocean? Is there maybe a boat, for instance? Because I’m not swimming again.”

“Who says we have to go by water?” said Leira, staring into the near distance.

The others followed her gaze.Mr. B’s teepee was still hiding behind the boulder near the library, floating a few inches off the ground. 

It seemed to be bouncing slightly, as if it had a case of the jitters.

As if it knew it was about to go on a dangerous journey. 

FROM Secrets of the Occulta Draco; or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer

Despite all that I have just written, there comes a time when every Dragon Tamer needs to convince a dragon to do something the dragon does not want to do—even if it is simply to fly home rather than burn down a village.

How do you persuade a beast that is so much older, wiser, bigger, and stronger than you are to do something contrary to its will? 

The answer to that question, young Tamer, lies at the heart of the Occulta Draco, the arcane body of knowledge that I will endeavor to pass on to you now.…

CHAPTER NINETEEN

THE VERY TIPPY TEEPEE

Probably, it wasn’t necessary for Leira to have snuck up on the teepee. 

Yes, the teepee bent away from her when she came near, but it didn’t fly away altogether, as it might have. 

She grabbed one of the poles and held on tight as if the teepee were a wild horse, but it only pulled slightly, seemingly resigned to welcoming the motley crew of passengers.

“Do you think it will hold all of us?” asked Pablo, looking from his friends to the tattered canvas structure floating in front of them. 

“I mean, that’s a lot of weight for a teepee to fly with.”

Jonah laughed. 

“Any weight is a lot of weight for a teepee to fly with.”

“Mira can stay behind,” suggested Leira. 

“Then we’ll be one less.”

“What? I will not,” said Mira.

“It’s just because I love you and I want you to be safe.”

Mira gritted her teeth, furious.

“That’s so not the reason and you know it!”

“Is so.”

“Is not!”

They glared at each other, continuing their fight in silence.

The boys looked knowingly at Clay. 

It seemed obvious that he was the source of the sisterly disagreement.

“You really gonna let them fight over you like this?” Kwan whispered.

Clay shrugged, horribly embarrassed. 

The last thing he wanted to do was intervene, but they weren’t going to get anywhere until Leira and Mira made peace.

He forced himself to speak. 

“It’s okay. We can all hang out as much as you want later,” he said, avoiding their eyes. 

“You don’t have to fight about it.”

Mira looked at him.

Leira looked at him. 

There was an awkward silence.

Then both sisters started giggling. 

Then laughing. 

Then full out-and-out guffawing.

“You thought we were fighting over you?!” said Leira.

“Why would we ever—” said Mira. 

“Wait, oh no, you didn’t think we had crushes on you, did you?”

Leira stared. 

“That’s… I can’t even—”

“You did, didn’t you?!”

The truth was evident in Clay’s blushing face.

Mira shook her head in exaggerated amazement. 

“O-M-G. You did! You thought we had crushes on you.”

They laughed harder and harder until they both were doubled over.

“I don’t know—I didn’t really—it’s just—” Clay stammered. 

“That’s what they said.” 

He pointed lamely at their friends.

Mira shook her head in disgust.

“So you guys don’t think girls have anything to fight about besides a boy?”

Leira pointed to Jonah. 

“You of all people should know better. You have two moms! They’re going to be so mad when I tell them how sexist you are.”

“Please don’t,” said Jonah nervously.

“So, what were you guys really fighting about, then?” said Clay, still unable to look them in the eye.

“I’ll tell you what we’ve been fighting about—her,” said Mira, indicating her sister. 

“She never includes me in any of the fun stuff.”

“You mean the dangerous stuff,” said Leira.

“Same difference,” said Mira. 

“Just because I like to wear dresses, you think I’m useless and can’t be trusted. You’re as bad as the boys are!”

“That is so not true!”

“Fine, then let me go with you! No, forget that. I mean, watch me go with you.”

“Fine. I’m not stopping you.”

“Fine,” said Mira.

She stepped into the teepee—then promptly fell on her face.

As did all the others as soon as they got inside. 

The teepee was so tippy it was nearly impossible for anyone to stand up.

In other respects, Mr. Bailey’s mobile summer home was surprisingly accommodating; it proved to be much bigger on the inside than it appeared from the outside, and despite the added weight, it had no trouble rising in the air after everyone had settled in.

Navigation was another matter.

Clay had been in the teepee only once before—when Mr. Bailey flew him over Earth Ranch and introduced him to the concept of the Other Side—but that was one more time than the others had been in the teepee, so it fell to him to steer the unlikely canvas aircraft. 

Just as he remembered, there was a campfire stove in the middle that filled the teepee with warm air in the manner of a hot-air balloon, and there were ropes and pulleys that adjusted the sides of the teepee as if they were sails on a sailboat. 

The problem was that whenever he pulled on a rope, too much hot air was released and the teepee started to plummet. 

And when he refilled it with hot air, the sides of the teepee ballooned outward and no longer caught the wind the way they were supposed to.

After a couple of heart-stopping drops and a few dizzying spins, Clay thought he was maybe, possibly, perhaps beginning to have a handle on steering the teepee. 

But then, checking on the stove, he accidentally let a rope slip out of his hands and—“Aaaaaaah!”—the teepee turned on its side. 

Screaming, they all slammed into one another and had to grab fistfuls of canvas to avoid sliding out.

Somehow, among the tangled limbs and flying debris, Clay found the loose rope and managed to pull on it. 

The teepee righted itself just in time.

“Well, that was fun!” said Mira, determinedly cheerful, though it was clear from her sweaty forehead that she’d been as frightened as everyone else.

“Gee, sis, you look kind of ill. Not letting a little shake get to you, are you?”

“The only thing getting to me is you,” her sister grumbled.

“Maybe if I stand, it’ll be better?” said Clay when he could at last catch a breath.

Kwan snorted. 

“Anything would be better.”

As I’ve already noted, standing was very difficult. 

But Clay had an innate sense of balance from his years of skateboarding, and after a couple of false starts, he was able to remain standing. 

This turned out to be the trick to successfully steering the teepee.

Clay had better access to the ropes, and he could rely on his skateboarder instincts to help keep the teepee steady.

A smile crept onto his face. 

“You know, this thing is actually kinda awesome.”

“Just don’t get too confident!” warned Leira. 

“Stay scared so you pay attention to what you’re doing.”

“So what’s our plan?” Pablo asked.

“You mean the plan of how seven kids are going to raid a giant cruise ship and spring a fire-breathing dragon that’s caged in a shipping container and protected by dozens of armed guards?” said Kwan. 

“That plan?”

“Yeah,” said Pablo. 

“That plan.”

Kwan shrugged. 

“No idea. Clay is the captain today, not me, in case you haven’t noticed.”

They all looked at Clay. 

He looked back at them.

Okay, he thought, I can do this. I have to do this.

“Brett, when you saw the container on the ship, where was it?” he asked. 

“You think they’ll put it back there—with the dragon in it, I mean?”

Brett cleared his throat. 

(He wasn’t normally so nervous about speaking. Then again, he wasn’t normally listened to.) 

“Probably—I doubt they’d leave it out on the deck for everyone to see. It was in this big cargo-holding area in the middle of the ship. The problem is, to get in there, you need an all-access ID card.”

“Yeah, that’s where the container is—in the cargo hold,” murmured Jonah, his eyes closed.

Brett stared at him. 

“Does he have X-ray vision, or does he see into the future?”

“I don’t know,” said Clay. 

“Both?”

Brett shook his head. 

“You’re all like superheroes—it’s ridiculous! When I get home, I’m getting you a TV deal.”

“No!” the others said in chorus.

“Everything here is on the down low, remember?” said Pablo.

Jonah nodded. 

“Earth Ranch, magic, it’s all secret.”

Brett shrugged. 

“Suit yourselves.”

Kwan scratched his head. 

“Really? You think we could do TV? How much cash do you think we’d get?”

Leira poked him.

“Kwan!”

“Kidding!” said Kwan. 

“Sorry. Jeez, can’t a man dream a little?”

Pablo snapped his fingers at them. 

“Can we be serious for a second, guys?” 

He turned to Brett. 

“So where do we get that all-access pass?”

“I had one, but it’s at the bottom of the ocean now, which isn’t very helpful, is it?” said Brett. 

“Let’s see… I know some of the ship security staff have them.”

“Perf,” said Leira.

“Just get me near one of those guys, and I’ll take it from there.”

Brett nodded.

“I think I can do that.”

“Okay,” said Kwan. 

“Say we get that pass, and we get into the cargo hold, and say the container’s there, and let’s even say the dragon is there—then what happens?”

Silence. Nobody had an answer.

“How about we just wing it?” said Clay finally. 

“I have a feeling that once I’m in the room with Ariella—well, I just think I’ll know what to do.”

The book was in his backpack, but when was he going to have time to read it?

“Okay, then, that settles it,” said Leira. 

“We’ll wing it.”

“Awesome,” said Pablo.

“Cool,” agreed Jonah.

“I love improv!” said Mira. 

“That’s when the best stuff happens.”

Kwan shrugged. 

“I guess it’s unanimous. Improv it is.”

The campers had long suspected that the comings and goings of the vog on Price Island were not wholly accidents of nature but rather responses to spells laid years ago. 

Often the vog seemed to descend for a specific reason—when something was on the verge of being found that wasn’t supposed to be found, for example. 

Or, like today, when someone had need of the vog for cover.

Almost as soon as they’d boarded the teepee, a thick layer of vog had started rolling in, as if in answer to their request. 

Clay had never before been so grateful for the gray, smoky air. 

Even with a dragon on board the cruise ship, a flying teepee was bound to attract attention. 

The vog would hide it… for a while.

And yet, flying in the vog meant flying blind.

Thankfully, they had Jonah to guide them.

“Slow down—the ship’s right ahead of us,” he said to Clay. 

“We want to get above it, right? Not overshoot it altogether.”

“Seriously, you’re like human radar,” said Brett. 

“Are you sure you don’t want to do TV?”

“What about the ship’s radar?” Mira asked.

“Won’t it detect us?”

“I doubt they’re on the lookout for teepees,” said Leira.

“For all they know, we’re just some random bird flying by.”

Mira laughed. 

“Yeah, a big, triangular random bird. I bet they see lots of those.”

“Anyway, what are they going to do, shoot antiaircraft missiles at us?” said Pablo. 

“You know I’m the most paranoid guy around, but seriously, it’s a cruise ship, not a nuclear sub.”

Before they knew it, they were hovering above the Imperial Conquest. 

They slowly circled the ship while Jonah peered into the vog, describing what he saw. 

Flying next to them, a flock of very determined seagulls kept careful watch over the ship’s balconies, waiting for somebody to leave a half-eaten tray of food.

“Jeez, there are a lot of people down there,” said Jonah. 

He shivered. 

“I don’t know why, but I suddenly have a bad feeling about that ship.”

Pablo raised an eyebrow. 

“Like it’s going to make us sick?”

“Like it’s going to make us sink,” said Jonah darkly.

“Hey, Jonah, can you see the big door at the back of the ship—looks like a giant garage door?” said Brett. 

“That’s where they load stuff into the cargo room.”

“Yeah, I see it, but we can’t go in that way,” said Jonah as Clay maneuvered the teepee for him. 

“There’s, like, a dozen of your dad’s guys hanging around back there.”

“Right. We go in the way I did before—through the kitchen,” said Brett. 

“That big door is our way out.”

“How’re we going to land with so many people on deck?” said Leira. 

“That’s the question.”

“Don’t you guys have invisibility cloaks or something?” asked Brett.

The others looked at him.

“Okay, guess not.”

“What we need is a distraction,” said Kwan. 

“Pablo, what you got?”

Pablo looked down at the ship.

The vog was starting to dissipate, and now they could see the passengers moving around. 

“See that swimming pool? Clay, I need you to get me straight over it.… Right. Now a little lower. But don’t let anyone see us!”

“How can I control that?” said Clay.

“Just do it.”

When he was satisfied that they were in the right position, Pablo reached into his pocket. 

“Watch this, dudes—”

He stuck his hand out of the teepee and poured a stream of powder down into the pool. 

For a second, nothing happened.

Then the pool started churning and foaming like an oversized Jacuzzi. 

Suddenly, it erupted in a big geyser that sprayed water fifty feet in the air and all over the Lido Deck. 

Everyone on the deck—passengers and crew alike—ran for cover.

“Wow, what did you put in there?” asked Mira.

Clay laughed. 

“Same thing he put in my drink this morning, I bet.”

“But that’s a swimming pool down there, not a glass of juice,” said Leira.

Pablo grinned. 

“Okay, so maybe I mixed in a few more things to increase the effect.” 

CHAPTER TWENTY

NOW YOU SEE IT, NOW YOU DON’T

Clay parked the teepee behind the ship’s giant climbing wall.

It was a secluded spot, but even so, he didn’t want to risk leaving the teepee there for more than a minute. 

After they’d all disembarked, he set the camping stove burner to high and sent the teepee sailing up into the clouds. 

He had no idea how to retrieve it, but he had a feeling that if they were successful, they would find another way back to the island. 

And if they weren’t successful, well, they might not be going back to the island at all.

They had made it aboard the ship; that was the main thing.

No longer erupting, the swimming pool was back to normal—minus about half its water. 

As dazed attendants refilled the pool and mopped the deck, impatient swimmers and sunbathers stood around, eating pizza and waiting for the pool to reopen.

“Now You See Him, Now You Don’t!… And now you do! If you didn’t catch the last magic show, you’re in luck because there’s another one in five minutes,” said an upbeat male voice over the intercom. 

“Get yourself over to the Shooting Stars Nightclub and Casino for the show of a lifetime.”

Immediately, people started heading indoors.

“Follow them,” said Brett. 

“There will be a security guy with a pass there, for sure,” he added to Leira in a whisper.

Spreading out in order not to call attention to themselves, the campers joined the crush of cruisers going downstairs. 

It was so crowded they didn’t realize they’d reached the Shooting Stars Nightclub and Casino until they were right in front of it, part of the wide, chaotic queue assembled for the next magic show. 

Meanwhile, other passengers were exiting the nightclub. 

Alas, judging from the stray bits of conversation that the kids could overhear, these people weren’t particularly happy with the show they had just seen.

“Is that what they’re calling magic nowadays?” 

“My dog does a better job of making a rabbit disappear.” 

“I’m telling you, he wouldn’t last a day in Vegas!” 

“Does he think the sunglasses make him look cool?”

But perhaps it was just that the complainers were louder than the happy customers. 

(You know how that is, right?) 

Swept up in the crowd, our friends were about to enter the nightclub when Brett was stopped by a man standing outside the door.

“Hey, aren’t you—? What are you doing here?”

Uh-oh. 

It was one of Brett’s father’s men, now working as a bouncer for the nightclub.

“I don’t know who you think I am,” said Brett calmly. 

“But I’m a passenger on this ship, and my friends and I would like to see the magic show now.”

They all nodded. 

“It’s about to start!”

“Let us in, please.”

The bouncer looked at Brett suspiciously. 

“Are you sure you’re not Brett junior? You better show me your ID right now or I’m taking you straight to Mr. Perry!”

He nodded at Brett’s friends. 

“That goes for all of you.”

Before anybody else could respond, Mira yelled, 


“You’re mean!” and started crying hysterically. 

As tears poured down her cheeks, years seemed to fall off her face.

In seconds, she became a much younger girl—a ten-year-old version of her true self. 

(And yet if you looked closely, her face hadn’t changed at all, only her expression and her movements.)

“You’re scaring me!” she shouted. 

“I want my mommy!”

As the bouncer stared, dumbfounded by her transformation, other adults gathered around Mira protectively.

“What’s wrong, sweetie?” 

“Did that man hurt you?”

“How dare you scare a little girl like that!” said an angry woman to the bouncer. 

“Who’s your manager? I want to speak to your boss right away.”

While the bouncer tried to defend himself, Mira cried even louder.

Taking advantage of the commotion, her friends ducked inside the nightclub.

“Did you get his card?” 

Kwan whispered to Leira.

She shook her head. 

“No time.”

Kwan nodded. 

“Okay, I’m on it—”

As soon as they were gone, Mira stopped crying.

“Never mind, I feel better,” she said, wiping away her tears. 

“I’m going to go find my mommy now.”

She marched off in the direction the others had gone, only to be stopped by a crew member when she got to the roped-off casino area.

“Sorry, miss. The casino is eighteen and over only.”

Mira tossed her long red hair out of her eyes and looked at the crew member. 

The ten-year-old had vanished; she now had the face of an adult woman.

“I know!” she said, laughing in a decidedly grown-up fashion. 

“Thank you for the compliment, but I’m twenty-seven years old.”

“Oh, sorry, I thought—never mind,” said the crew member, taken aback.

“Please enter.”

Mira found the others gathered around a blackjack table, where Kwan was already sitting behind a big pile of gambling tokens, or chips, as they are known.

“See, I can be helpful sometimes,” Mira whispered in her sister’s ear.

“Yeah, I guess all that practice fake-crying to get Dad’s attention comes in handy now and then,” said Leira.

Mira glared.

Leira smiled.

“Okay, okay, it was cool what you did, I admit it.

”On the table in front of Kwan was a jack of hearts and an eight of spades. 

“Hit me,” he said, slapping the cards with his hand.

“Are you sure?” the dealer asked skeptically. 

“Usually people stand when they have eighteen.”

“You bet I’m sure, Pretty Lady.”

The dealer gave him a look. 

“You’ve got chutzpah, kid, I’ll give you that. But if you call me that again, I’ll have you out on your ear.” *

She pulled a card from the “shoe” and put a three of clubs on the table.

Her eyes widened. 

3 + 18 = 21.

Blackjack.

Kwan grinned and pumped his fist. 

“How ’bout I call you Lady Luck instead?”

He was just gathering his chips into one big mound when he spied a burly man in a dark suit—a casino security officer—walking toward them.

Kwan winked at his friends. 

Bingo.

“How’s it going?” asked the security officer when he reached the table. 

“Having fun?”

“Definitely,” said Kwan. 

“It’s going awesome! Look how much money I’ve already made!”

“Not counting cards, are you?”

“Why? What do you care?” Kwan scoffed. 

“We’re not in Vegas.”

“It’s illegal wherever you are.” 

The security officer frowned. 

“How old are you, anyway?”

While they were speaking, Leira had brushed casually against the security officer. 

She gave Kwan a thumbs-up, quickly flashed a shiny ID card, and then disappeared into the crowd.

“You know what?” said Kwan. 

“I changed my mind. I don’t want to play anymore.”

“Good,” said the security officer, confused. 

“Then beat it.”

“Will do!” said Kwan, jumping up.

“What’s the fastest way to get in trouble at a casino?… Win!” he said to his friends as they headed out. 

“It’s the only thing you’re not allowed to do.”

Leira rejoined them before they reached the exit. 

“Better not go out that way,” she said. 

“Look—”

The bouncer was still standing by the door, watching people go in and out.

Meanwhile, behind them, the security officer was standing in front of the casino area, arms crossed.

There was only one safe option: to walk deeper into the nightclub and sit down for the magic show.

They settled into their seats just as the magician walked onstage. 

He was now wearing his top hat, and he looked… better! 

Definitely better! 

Much, much better, really. 

Amber had seen to it that his suit was, well, slightly less rumpled, anyway. 

And with the stage lights lending their sparkle, and with the exhilaration of a live theatrical event putting a flush in his cheeks, 

I believe you could begin to see just how terribly handsome and dashing I—I mean he!—was beneath his sunglasses.

“Welcome to an evening of magic and mystery,” he said with an engaging smile that would have won you over immediately if you’d been there, I promise. 

“I come to you from the exotic East… Hoboken, New Jersey.” *

The audience laughed heartily at this hilarious joke. 

Or, to put it another way, they smiled uncomfortably at this somewhat awkward witticism. 

(What can I say? I, er, Max-Ernest was feeling very anxious and perhaps not delivering his magician’s patter with his usual aplomb.)

“For my first trick, I would like to introduce you to my assistant, Quiche.”

Bowing slightly, the magician removed his hat—and revealed his pet rabbit sitting on his head.

At this charming visual joke, the audience laughed much louder, although I admit that a few of them might have thought that the rabbit was sitting there by accident. 

(It was not an accident; the magician had rehearsed this joke with his rabbit over and over to get it right, suffering even the occasional indignity of rabbit, shall we call them, pellets in his hair, not to mention more than a few scratches on his nose.) 

The magician played along by pretending to be surprised. 

Then, in his inimitably witty style, he performed a series of tricks so clever and inventive you wouldn’t believe it if I described them to you. 

I will only tell you that at the end of these magnificent wonderments, the rabbit was again sitting atop the magician’s head—but this time Quiche was wearing a miniature top hat on his own furry little cranium!

Well, what do you think of that?! 

Not only an astonishing feat, but I daresay an adorable one as well! 

Do you not agree?

Is it any wonder that after such a demanding, tour de force performance, the magician would get a little confused and distressed when suddenly a group of rambunctious kids in his audience all stood up and started shouting, “Fire!… Fire!… Fire!”

It was Brett’s idea—whispered to the others—that they shout “Fire!” as a way of getting everyone to exit the room with them. 

What they needed was the cover of a crowd. 

Otherwise, the bouncer would have picked them off one by one as they left.

Unfortunately, before panic and mayhem could properly ensue, a young woman in a yellow evening dress ran up onstage, crying “False alarm! False alarm!”

“Oh no! It’s Amber, my dad’s fiancée,” said Brett under his breath to Clay. 

He tried to hide his face behind his arm.

“Don’t worry,” Amber said to the audience, smiling her dazzling smile. 

“If there really were a fire, the alarm would go off, right? And the sprinklers in the ceiling would turn on. But you’re all dry, aren’t you? And thank goodness for that!”

Her reassurances worked; everyone sat down. 

Disappointed, Brett and his friends were forced to sit down, too.

But not before—for one short but significant second—the magician raised his sunglasses and looked at Clay with an expression that was a peculiar combination of surprise, pride, relief, disbelief, love, guilt, and a certain wry humor about the odd turns that life sometimes takes. 

At least I assume all those things were conveyed in the magician’s expression; I know he felt them.

By the time Clay looked back at him, however, the magician’s sunglasses were again resting on his nose and he was no longer looking Clay’s way.

Clay stared at the back of the magician’s head, wondering if it was possible.… 

He had not seen a magic show in the two years since his brother left. 

Or not a magic show of the bunny-in-hat variety. 

So of course he’d been thinking about his brother from the moment he sat down. 

But he figured he was only imagining the resemblance.

It seemed too unlikely a coincidence that it should really be his brother standing onstage in front of him. 

Besides, his brother’s suits were always wrinkled, and his hair was always sticking up. 

Max-Ernest was a mess; this magician seemed, well, a hair more put together.

Still, he was almost certain the magician had been looking his way. 

And why else would he single out Clay?

“Sorry about the interruption, darling,” said Amber to the magician.

“Please continue your fantastic show!”

He smiled. 

“Of course. And thank you for volunteering! Every magician likes a lovely young woman to assist with his tricks. And I have the perfect trick for you! Do you remember Gateway to the Invisible, Amber?” 

He gestured to a dark mirrored cabinet standing behind him.

“These days I do a version called Up in Smoke. But in honor of the island nearby, I think we should call it Lost in the Vog. How ’bout that?”

Amber stared at him: “I knew I knew you! You’re—”

But before she could say his name, the magician waved his wand over his hat, and suddenly—“Abracadabra!”—the hat was on fire, and Amber was engulfed in a big puff of smoke. 

When the smoke dissipated, she was gone.

“Huh. Where did she go?” said the magician, with the kind of satisfied smile that only comes when you disappear a lifelong enemy.

He held up the flaming hat. 

“Oh no! It looks like there really was a fire all along! Everybody, run! Now! Get out of here before it’s too late! Fire! Fire!”

He leaned down and whispered to his rabbit. 

“Sorry about the hat. We’ll get it patched.”

As the panicked audience started to leave, the kids looked at one another in confusion.

“That’s not a real fire, just an act…” said Pablo.

“Why is he helping us like this?” asked Leira.

Because he’s my brother, Clay thought.

It had to be Max-Ernest. 

It was the only explanation.

“I dunno what his deal is,” said Kwan. 

“But don’t look a gift horse and all that—let’s bail.”

As the group ran out, now protected by the crowd, Clay glanced back at the magician, who was looking at him again from behind his sunglasses.

Clay wanted to run over and hug him. 

Or hit him. 

He wasn’t sure which. 

Now that he was sure it was his brother, the old anger was returning in force. 

Maybe Max-Ernest had gotten rid of Amber for them, but his brother had also abandoned him. 

He’d only contacted Clay once in two years. 

And now he didn’t even have the courage to say hello?

Clay was about to go confront Max-Ernest when Leira tugged on his sleeve. 

“C’mon, there’s no time to dawdle! If we want to save Ariella, we have to run!”

CHAPTER TWENTY

NOW YOU SEE IT, NOW YOU DON’T

Clay parked the teepee behind the ship’s giant climbing wall.

It was a secluded spot, but even so, he didn’t want to risk leaving the teepee there for more than a minute. 

After they’d all disembarked, he set the camping stove burner to high and sent the teepee sailing up into the clouds. 

He had no idea how to retrieve it, but he had a feeling that if they were successful, they would find another way back to the island. 

And if they weren’t successful, well, they might not be going back to the island at all.

They had made it aboard the ship; that was the main thing.

No longer erupting, the swimming pool was back to normal—minus about half its water. 

As dazed attendants refilled the pool and mopped the deck, impatient swimmers and sunbathers stood around, eating pizza and waiting for the pool to reopen.

“Now You See Him, Now You Don’t!… And now you do! If you didn’t catch the last magic show, you’re in luck because there’s another one in five minutes,” said an upbeat male voice over the intercom. 

“Get yourself over to the Shooting Stars Nightclub and Casino for the show of a lifetime.”

Immediately, people started heading indoors.

“Follow them,” said Brett. 

“There will be a security guy with a pass there, for sure,” he added to Leira in a whisper.

Spreading out in order not to call attention to themselves, the campers joined the crush of cruisers going downstairs. 

It was so crowded they didn’t realize they’d reached the Shooting Stars Nightclub and Casino until they were right in front of it, part of the wide, chaotic queue assembled for the next magic show. 

Meanwhile, other passengers were exiting the nightclub. 

Alas, judging from the stray bits of conversation that the kids could overhear, these people weren’t particularly happy with the show they had just seen.

“Is that what they’re calling magic nowadays?” 

“My dog does a better job of making a rabbit disappear.” 

“I’m telling you, he wouldn’t last a day in Vegas!” 

“Does he think the sunglasses make him look cool?”

But perhaps it was just that the complainers were louder than the happy customers. 

(You know how that is, right?) 

Swept up in the crowd, our friends were about to enter the nightclub when Brett was stopped by a man standing outside the door.

“Hey, aren’t you—? What are you doing here?”

Uh-oh. 

It was one of Brett’s father’s men, now working as a bouncer for the nightclub.

“I don’t know who you think I am,” said Brett calmly. 

“But I’m a passenger on this ship, and my friends and I would like to see the magic show now.”

They all nodded. 

“It’s about to start!”

“Let us in, please.”

The bouncer looked at Brett suspiciously. 

“Are you sure you’re not Brett junior? You better show me your ID right now or I’m taking you straight to Mr. Perry!”

He nodded at Brett’s friends. 

“That goes for all of you.”

Before anybody else could respond, Mira yelled, 


“You’re mean!” and started crying hysterically. 

As tears poured down her cheeks, years seemed to fall off her face.

In seconds, she became a much younger girl—a ten-year-old version of her true self. 

(And yet if you looked closely, her face hadn’t changed at all, only her expression and her movements.)

“You’re scaring me!” she shouted. 

“I want my mommy!”

As the bouncer stared, dumbfounded by her transformation, other adults gathered around Mira protectively.

“What’s wrong, sweetie?” 

“Did that man hurt you?”

“How dare you scare a little girl like that!” said an angry woman to the bouncer. 

“Who’s your manager? I want to speak to your boss right away.”

While the bouncer tried to defend himself, Mira cried even louder.

Taking advantage of the commotion, her friends ducked inside the nightclub.

“Did you get his card?” 

Kwan whispered to Leira.

She shook her head. 

“No time.”

Kwan nodded. 

“Okay, I’m on it—”

As soon as they were gone, Mira stopped crying.

“Never mind, I feel better,” she said, wiping away her tears. 

“I’m going to go find my mommy now.”

She marched off in the direction the others had gone, only to be stopped by a crew member when she got to the roped-off casino area.

“Sorry, miss. The casino is eighteen and over only.”

Mira tossed her long red hair out of her eyes and looked at the crew member. 

The ten-year-old had vanished; she now had the face of an adult woman.

“I know!” she said, laughing in a decidedly grown-up fashion. 

“Thank you for the compliment, but I’m twenty-seven years old.”

“Oh, sorry, I thought—never mind,” said the crew member, taken aback.

“Please enter.”

Mira found the others gathered around a blackjack table, where Kwan was already sitting behind a big pile of gambling tokens, or chips, as they are known.

“See, I can be helpful sometimes,” Mira whispered in her sister’s ear.

“Yeah, I guess all that practice fake-crying to get Dad’s attention comes in handy now and then,” said Leira.

Mira glared.

Leira smiled.

“Okay, okay, it was cool what you did, I admit it.

”On the table in front of Kwan was a jack of hearts and an eight of spades. 

“Hit me,” he said, slapping the cards with his hand.

“Are you sure?” the dealer asked skeptically. 

“Usually people stand when they have eighteen.”

“You bet I’m sure, Pretty Lady.”

The dealer gave him a look. 

“You’ve got chutzpah, kid, I’ll give you that. But if you call me that again, I’ll have you out on your ear.” *

She pulled a card from the “shoe” and put a three of clubs on the table.

Her eyes widened. 

3 + 18 = 21.

Blackjack.

Kwan grinned and pumped his fist. 

“How ’bout I call you Lady Luck instead?”

He was just gathering his chips into one big mound when he spied a burly man in a dark suit—a casino security officer—walking toward them.

Kwan winked at his friends. 

Bingo.

“How’s it going?” asked the security officer when he reached the table. 

“Having fun?”

“Definitely,” said Kwan. 

“It’s going awesome! Look how much money I’ve already made!”

“Not counting cards, are you?”

“Why? What do you care?” Kwan scoffed. 

“We’re not in Vegas.”

“It’s illegal wherever you are.” 

The security officer frowned. 

“How old are you, anyway?”

While they were speaking, Leira had brushed casually against the security officer. 

She gave Kwan a thumbs-up, quickly flashed a shiny ID card, and then disappeared into the crowd.

“You know what?” said Kwan. 

“I changed my mind. I don’t want to play anymore.”

“Good,” said the security officer, confused. 

“Then beat it.”

“Will do!” said Kwan, jumping up.

“What’s the fastest way to get in trouble at a casino?… Win!” he said to his friends as they headed out. 

“It’s the only thing you’re not allowed to do.”

Leira rejoined them before they reached the exit. 

“Better not go out that way,” she said. 

“Look—”

The bouncer was still standing by the door, watching people go in and out.

Meanwhile, behind them, the security officer was standing in front of the casino area, arms crossed.

There was only one safe option: to walk deeper into the nightclub and sit down for the magic show.

They settled into their seats just as the magician walked onstage. 

He was now wearing his top hat, and he looked… better! 

Definitely better! 

Much, much better, really. 

Amber had seen to it that his suit was, well, slightly less rumpled, anyway. 

And with the stage lights lending their sparkle, and with the exhilaration of a live theatrical event putting a flush in his cheeks, 

I believe you could begin to see just how terribly handsome and dashing I—I mean he!—was beneath his sunglasses.

“Welcome to an evening of magic and mystery,” he said with an engaging smile that would have won you over immediately if you’d been there, I promise. 

“I come to you from the exotic East… Hoboken, New Jersey.” *

The audience laughed heartily at this hilarious joke. 

Or, to put it another way, they smiled uncomfortably at this somewhat awkward witticism. 

(What can I say? I, er, Max-Ernest was feeling very anxious and perhaps not delivering his magician’s patter with his usual aplomb.)

“For my first trick, I would like to introduce you to my assistant, Quiche.”

Bowing slightly, the magician removed his hat—and revealed his pet rabbit sitting on his head.

At this charming visual joke, the audience laughed much louder, although I admit that a few of them might have thought that the rabbit was sitting there by accident. 

(It was not an accident; the magician had rehearsed this joke with his rabbit over and over to get it right, suffering even the occasional indignity of rabbit, shall we call them, pellets in his hair, not to mention more than a few scratches on his nose.) 

The magician played along by pretending to be surprised. 

Then, in his inimitably witty style, he performed a series of tricks so clever and inventive you wouldn’t believe it if I described them to you. 

I will only tell you that at the end of these magnificent wonderments, the rabbit was again sitting atop the magician’s head—but this time Quiche was wearing a miniature top hat on his own furry little cranium!

Well, what do you think of that?! 

Not only an astonishing feat, but I daresay an adorable one as well! 

Do you not agree?

Is it any wonder that after such a demanding, tour de force performance, the magician would get a little confused and distressed when suddenly a group of rambunctious kids in his audience all stood up and started shouting, “Fire!… Fire!… Fire!”

It was Brett’s idea—whispered to the others—that they shout “Fire!” as a way of getting everyone to exit the room with them. 

What they needed was the cover of a crowd. 

Otherwise, the bouncer would have picked them off one by one as they left.

Unfortunately, before panic and mayhem could properly ensue, a young woman in a yellow evening dress ran up onstage, crying “False alarm! False alarm!”

“Oh no! It’s Amber, my dad’s fiancée,” said Brett under his breath to Clay. 

He tried to hide his face behind his arm.

“Don’t worry,” Amber said to the audience, smiling her dazzling smile. 

“If there really were a fire, the alarm would go off, right? And the sprinklers in the ceiling would turn on. But you’re all dry, aren’t you? And thank goodness for that!”

Her reassurances worked; everyone sat down. 

Disappointed, Brett and his friends were forced to sit down, too.

But not before—for one short but significant second—the magician raised his sunglasses and looked at Clay with an expression that was a peculiar combination of surprise, pride, relief, disbelief, love, guilt, and a certain wry humor about the odd turns that life sometimes takes. 

At least I assume all those things were conveyed in the magician’s expression; I know he felt them.

By the time Clay looked back at him, however, the magician’s sunglasses were again resting on his nose and he was no longer looking Clay’s way.

Clay stared at the back of the magician’s head, wondering if it was possible.… 

He had not seen a magic show in the two years since his brother left. 

Or not a magic show of the bunny-in-hat variety. 

So of course he’d been thinking about his brother from the moment he sat down. 

But he figured he was only imagining the resemblance.

It seemed too unlikely a coincidence that it should really be his brother standing onstage in front of him. 

Besides, his brother’s suits were always wrinkled, and his hair was always sticking up. 

Max-Ernest was a mess; this magician seemed, well, a hair more put together.

Still, he was almost certain the magician had been looking his way. 

And why else would he single out Clay?

“Sorry about the interruption, darling,” said Amber to the magician.

“Please continue your fantastic show!”

He smiled. 

“Of course. And thank you for volunteering! Every magician likes a lovely young woman to assist with his tricks. And I have the perfect trick for you! Do you remember Gateway to the Invisible, Amber?” 

He gestured to a dark mirrored cabinet standing behind him.

“These days I do a version called Up in Smoke. But in honor of the island nearby, I think we should call it Lost in the Vog. How ’bout that?”

Amber stared at him: “I knew I knew you! You’re—”

But before she could say his name, the magician waved his wand over his hat, and suddenly—“Abracadabra!”—the hat was on fire, and Amber was engulfed in a big puff of smoke. 

When the smoke dissipated, she was gone.

“Huh. Where did she go?” said the magician, with the kind of satisfied smile that only comes when you disappear a lifelong enemy.

He held up the flaming hat. 

“Oh no! It looks like there really was a fire all along! Everybody, run! Now! Get out of here before it’s too late! Fire! Fire!”

He leaned down and whispered to his rabbit. 

“Sorry about the hat. We’ll get it patched.”

As the panicked audience started to leave, the kids looked at one another in confusion.

“That’s not a real fire, just an act…” said Pablo.

“Why is he helping us like this?” asked Leira.

Because he’s my brother, Clay thought.

It had to be Max-Ernest. 

It was the only explanation.

“I dunno what his deal is,” said Kwan. 

“But don’t look a gift horse and all that—let’s bail.”

As the group ran out, now protected by the crowd, Clay glanced back at the magician, who was looking at him again from behind his sunglasses.

Clay wanted to run over and hug him. 

Or hit him. 

He wasn’t sure which. 

Now that he was sure it was his brother, the old anger was returning in force. 

Maybe Max-Ernest had gotten rid of Amber for them, but his brother had also abandoned him. 

He’d only contacted Clay once in two years. 

And now he didn’t even have the courage to say hello?

Clay was about to go confront Max-Ernest when Leira tugged on his sleeve. 

“C’mon, there’s no time to dawdle! If we want to save Ariella, we have to run!”

He ran.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

ESCAPE ROUTINE

It didn’t take Amber more than three minutes to escape from the old trick cabinet, but they were three long, long minutes in which she was forced to relive a terrible humiliation of her early teen years.

By the time she was free, Max-Ernest was gone, and she was very, very angry.

If only she’d recognized him a minute earlier, she could have had him dragged offstage by his ears and fed him to the dragon! 

Better yet, she could have thrown Max-Ernest into the brig with that moralistic sourpuss Captain Abad. 

Ha. 

He would die of boredom! 

Instead, Amber thought, she was going to have to hunt everywhere on the boat for him.

The idea that her nerdy middle school nemesis had returned after so many years to be a fly in the ointment of her life once again—ugh, it was enough to make her break out in hives!

She should have known he’d still be working with that wacky group of do-gooder crackpots, the Terces Society. 

(It spells secret backward—how obvious can you get? And those poor pathetic souls thought they were so clever!) 

Why else would Max-Ernest be on the ship if not for them? 

Funny, in the old days, when she had first learned of the Terces Society and their enemies, the Midnight Sun, all the players had loomed so large in her imagination. 

How harmless everyone appeared now in retrospect! 

Not just Max-Ernest and that crazy, pointy-eared friend of his, Cassandra, but also Yo-Yoji (why did she ever think he was so cool?) and that kooky old magician—what was his name?—Pietro. 

Max-Ernest certainly seemed to be following in Pietro’s dilapidated footsteps, didn’t he?

She could only imagine what Antoinette would say if she were to see Max-Ernest now. 

The French were cruelly snobbish, very strict about their manners and customs, none more so than the grande madame Antoinette Mauvais; and there had been many times over the last ten years when Amber had regretted making herself Antoinette’s ward. 

She knew she could never fully please the ancient French woman. 

Well, if Max-Ernest was the alternative, she was more than glad to have thrown in her lot with Ms. Mauvais and the Midnight Sun. 

And now Amber was a grown woman herself, free—or relatively free—to manage her own operations in her own way, with no one looking over her shoulder. 

Of course, Ms. Mauvais was always looking over Amber’s shoulder—she was always looking over everyone’s shoulder—but at least it was from afar.…

How much did Max-Ernest know about the dragon, or about their plans for it, Amber wondered. 

Had he seen the habitat? 

Those were the questions of the moment. 

It didn’t matter so much what he knew personally. 

She would see to it that he never interfered with her affairs again. 

But whatever he knew, others might know as well. 

Those kids in the audience, for example. 

Max-Ernest had helped them escape. 

Why? 

What were they up to? 

And why were they with Brett junior?

She knew that kid would be a problem as soon as she’d met him. 

Oh, why couldn’t he have just drowned like everyone else who gets pushed off a ship!

“Now, now, Amber, don’t turn into the evil stepmother,” she chided herself. 

“You’re the nice one, remember? You’re Cinderella. You’re Sleeping Beauty. You’re Snow White…”

Okay, I’ll move on. 

Amber is not our main character, and she deserves no more page space. 

Forgive me—she’s just too much fun to write about. 

How often do you get to have total control over your enemy’s brain? *

Let’s go back to a much more heroic and likable character, whose thoughts and actions I have a somewhat closer knowledge of: Brett, who was by now back in the Lido Deck Snack Shack kitchen.

The Jell-O parfaits were still there, just as beautiful and tempting as Brett remembered—but, alas, much fewer in number. 

With the ship stalled, maybe the parfaits were in greater demand than they had been before. 

Or maybe some other kid had discovered them and single-handedly eaten half the ship’s parfait supply. 

Brett hadn’t had a decent meal in days, and he would have loved nothing more than to dive into the parfaits, but he knew there wasn’t time. Almost tearing up with regret, he forced himself to turn away.

“That’s it,” he said, pointing to the steel door beneath the red light.

Leira slid the security officer’s ID card through the slot, then tried the door; it wouldn’t open. 

She tried again.

“It’s not working,” she said, gritting her teeth with frustration. 

“Maybe he didn’t have a high enough access level.”

“Or maybe he already reported it stolen, and it was canceled,” said Kwan.

“Just try again,” said Clay, who was unwilling to believe they’d gotten this far only to have a bad card.

Leira slid the card through the slot again.

Click.

Everyone smiled.

They entered cautiously, not knowing what they’d find.

As far as Brett could tell, there were just as many live animals in the hold as before. 

But their mood had changed drastically. 

The animals cowered in their pens, huddled together, as far away as possible from the shipping container—and from the terrifying predator inside. 

Doubtless, this was the first dragon they’d ever come across, but they knew instinctively that they were meant to be its food.

Clay stepped up to the container, put his eye to one of the airholes, and was immediately enraged by what he saw.

Ariella, the most majestic of beasts, in a monstrous cage.

The muzzle was back on the dragon’s mouth, and its arms and tail were locked in manacles, but it was awake and could turn its head just enough for its big golden eye to meet Clay’s smaller brown one.

In this hard metal environment, the dragon’s eye looked meltingly soft.

“Hi, Ariella,” said Clay quietly. 

“It’s going to be okay. We’re going to get you out.”

The dragon’s response was characteristically prideful; translated into human speech, it was something like, Nobody lets us out; we come out when we choose to come out, you pathetic little human. 

But it was not nearly as harsh as that makes it sound.

The dragon, Clay sensed, was strangely at peace with its situation. 

Perhaps it was just tired of fighting, but Clay suspected that Ariella was taking the long view. 

He couldn’t get over the feeling that the dragon had willingly been caught, or at least that the dragon had known what was going to happen. 

It was as though some predetermined script were being played out, and Ariella was only mildly interested in watching the action, having already seen the ending.

“Hey, you—step away from that cage!”

Clay wheeled around to see two men entering the room. 

They both had guns in their hands—pointed in his direction.

“All of you—stand in a row with your hands up!”

“Are you police?” asked Pablo. 

“Are we being arrested?”

“Never mind that—just be quiet!”

One of the men spoke into a walkie-talkie: “They’re in here, just like you said they’d be.”

He listened to a voice on the other end, his eyebrows raised in incredulity. 

“You’re sure?… Okay, you got it, boss.”

He turned to the other man. 

“She says to lock ’em in the cage with the dragon.”

“Seriously?”

“Yep. Most secure place on the ship, she says.”

His companion laughed. 

“She’s got a point there.… All right, kids, if there’s any funny business, I’m going to take that muzzle off the dragon as soon as I throw you in with it.”

A few minutes later, the kids were all sitting on the cold steel floor of the container, trying not to be too alarmed by the terrible rumbling coming from somewhere in the dragon’s stomach—and the terrible stench.

“It’s like being in a car with my dog,” Kwan whispered. 

“Only worse.”

“What do you mean?” said Jonah.

“The farting. Duh. This dragon is lethal.”

Kwan’s friends glared at him. 

Nobody knew how much the dragon understood—or what would offend it.

“Don’t worry,” said Leira to the dragon. 

“He didn’t mean it.”

“Psst! Clay…” said a familiar voice.

Clay glanced up from Secrets of the Occulta Draco, which he had been reading like his life depended on it—because it very well might.

He saw an eye staring at him through one of the airholes. 

An eye remarkably like his own.

“What’s the bad word?” said the voice.

“Max-Ernest!?”

It was his brother. 

Bad word was like a secret handshake they shared. 

Or had shared, in the days when they shared things like secret handshakes. 

“Yep, it’s me. Or my eyeball, anyway. It’s great to see you.”

“Yeah…”

There were so many things Clay had wanted to say to his brother over the past two years, but the only thing he could think to say at the moment was the obvious: “What are you doing here? On the ship, I mean.”

“You’re not going to believe this,” said Max-Ernest, “but actually, weirdly, why I’m here, it’s just a coincidence, it doesn’t have anything to do with you. How ’bout that? I mean, of course it has to do with you, in a way, it affects you, and right now, I’m right here in this exact place to see you, but—”

“You’re on the ship for another reason?” 

Clay finished for him.

His brother was a man of words—many, many words—and sometimes you had to force him to come to the point.

“Right,” said Max-Ernest, relieved. 

“I’m following some people, some bad people—”

“The Midnight Sun.”

“Right,” said Max-Ernest, a little surprised. 

“We know they’re building something somewhere, something big, like a stadium or a coliseum or something. They call it—”

“The Sanctuary.”

“Right,” said Max-Ernest, a little more surprised. 

“And anything the Midnight Sun is putting that much effort into can’t be good. Unfortunately, we don’t know where it is, except that it’s in a desert somewhere. I’m on this ship hoping they’ll lead me to it. And then we can figure out what it’s for—”

“I know what it’s for,” said Clay.

“You do?” said Max-Ernest, even more surprised than he’d been before.

“Uh-huh. Look—” Clay stepped back so his brother could see inside.

“What is that?!” Max-Ernest’s one visible eye blinked in surprise.

“Oh, that?” said Clay blithely. 

“That’s a dragon.”

“A what?!”

“A dragon. You really didn’t know?”

“Max-Ernest! How convenient to find you here!” sang a voice from across the cargo room.

“Uh-oh, it’s Amber!” Max-Ernest whispered. 

“I’d better go.”

Amber was flanked by two members of Brett’s father’s crew. 

They walked casually in the direction of the container.

“You’re just going to leave us here?” said Clay, aghast.

“Oh, right!” Max-Ernest surreptitiously unlatched the container door.

“Okay, when I slide the door open, everybody run.”

“We’re not going without the dragon,” said Clay.

“What? Are you joking?” Max-Ernest looked from Clay and his friends to the dragon and back again. 

They were clearly very serious. 

“Fine, there’s no time to argue.”

He pulled an odd assortment of skeleton keys from his pocket.

“Here—these were Houdini’s for his escape routines. My old mentor, Pietro, gave them to me. If any keys can unlock the dragon, these can. I’ll try to distract the baddies—”

“Thanks,” said Clay, but his brother had already turned away.

“Bye,” Clay added.

“Yoo-hoo, Amber! Over here!” he could hear his brother saying.

A moment later, it was silent outside the container.

Clay looked back at the dragon. 

“Ready to get that muzzle off, Ariella?”

As the dragon craned its neck toward him, Clay examined the skeleton keys, trying to determine which was the most promising one. 

Each was more oddly shaped than the next.

“Oh, give those to a professional,” said Leira, grabbing the keys from him.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
SUNK

I would like to tell you about the brave exploits that followed. 

How our heroic friends from Earth Ranch vanquished all their enemies in the service of freeing a dragon. 

But the truth is, when you have a dragon on your side—an unchained, un-muzzled dragon; a dragon that isn’t being shot with hundreds of tranquilizer darts—escape isn’t terribly difficult.

That doesn’t mean there wasn’t some collateral damage, however.

In order to make an exit route, Clay had had no choice but to encourage Ariella to burn a hole in the side of the hold. 

But perhaps the big, fiery exhale that burned the hole was a tad bigger and fierier than necessary. 

The plume of fire went all the way through to the room where the ship’s water tanks were held and out the side of the ship. * 

As a result, one side of the ship caught on fire, and the other side started flooding with water.

A disaster? 

Most assuredly. 

But I submit that it could have been much worse. 

If a nuclear torpedo had hit the ship, for example, that would have been worse.

Once Ariella shot out of the hole in the ship’s hull as if from a cannon, the dragon soared briefly upward, then dropped down onto the top of the climbing wall and spread its wings as if to declare victory over the paltry earthlings scurrying around the ship below.

From the bottom of the wall, our friends anxiously watched the beast. 

Would Ariella breathe yet more fire on the ship until it was nothing more than a pile of ash floating on the surface of the ocean? 

Or would the dragon stay where it was, guarding its spoils while the ship sank and people dropped helplessly into the water?

In the end, Ariella resisted any impulse to wreak vengeance on the ship’s inhabitants.

Instead, the dragon performed what might best be described as a magic trick. 

As everyone stared, Ariella dove down from the wall and glided over the deck and pool, passing right by our friends from Earth Ranch. 

Then the dragon rose again, spreading its wings wider and wider as it flew, until they seemed to fade away altogether and the creature was completely camouflaged against the darkening sky. 

It was as though the dragon had vanished into the air. 

Straining his eyes, Brett could just make out the blurry outline of the dragon flapping its wings and lifting itself into the clouds.

But in a moment, the dragon had disappeared. 

Even to him.

He stared into the sky, happy and sad at once.

“Hey, Brett, where’s Clay?”

Leira was tapping him on the shoulder. 

It was time to find a way off the ship. 

Before it sunk with them on it.

“Oh, he said he’d meet us back onshore,” said Brett, a little smile on his lips. 

“He caught an early flight.”

Leira followed his gaze into the clouds. 

Was Brett saying what she thought he was saying?

Was Clay responsible for the dragon’s magical and peaceful exit? 

I don’t know what the dragon would have done otherwise, but it’s true that Clay had been silently urging the dragon to leave for several moments beforehand. 

Then again, if dragons have perfect knowledge of past and future, as some claim, how can a mere mortal affect their actions? 

Or are there many futures? 

And if there are, do they branch off in separate directions, never again to touch, or do they all end in the same place, like tributaries of a single river? 

Perhaps there is even a future that reverses course and travels upriver, as it were? 

But these are questions for philosophers. 

Our story has a more modest scope.

The only question we need to answer now is the perennial one. 

The question every writer faces.

What happens next?

You know how I feel about cruise ships. 

Nevertheless, I must commend the crew of the Imperial Conquest. 

Captain Abad had spent the last few hours quietly prepping her already well-trained team for the disaster to come. 

She had an inkling that they would have to evacuate, and she didn’t want to overlook a single passenger or crew member. 

By that measure, she was very successful. 

She might have lost her ship, but she did not lose any lives.

She even found time to hand out a few treats as she did the rounds of the muster rooms, bidding her passengers good-bye. 

It was in this way that she ran into Brett Perry’s son, the boy who’d been pushed off the ship. 

There was no time to learn how he’d survived the fall, but she didn’t think she’d ever forget how grateful he looked when she handed him the last of the Jell-O parfaits. 

To think a little bit of sugar and gelatin and whipped cream could make someone so happy!

Unfortunately, there was not enough time for all passengers to get to their assigned muster rooms—some of which were on fire or full of water. 

Even so, most passengers were safely escorted onto tenders. 

A few were forced to jump, but they wore life preservers and didn’t have to swim far before being picked up.

Later, news reports about the sinking of the Imperial Conquest noted the surprising number of farm animals aboard. 

Sadly, a few of the animals could not be saved, but there were many heartwarming stories about people who had managed to fit chickens and sheep, and in one case even a pig, onto their tenders and taken them to Price Island, where they were released into the wild.

What went unreported—and almost but not quite unnoticed—was the part that sea animals played in the rescue work. 

Gulls circled the wreck, squawking loudly when they saw a person in danger of drowning or getting caught in the fire. 

Meanwhile, dolphins, seemingly obeying mysterious commands, picked up stray swimmers as they jumped from the flaming ship.

Only Brett thought to look up—and saw the shimmering shadow of the dragon flying overhead. 

But even he couldn’t see Clay, sitting astride the dragon’s neck, speaking the strange words of the Occulta Draco.

It may seem to you that somebody should have stopped Amber and Brett senior from escaping, as they did in a small but fast speedboat that had been stowed discreetly on the cruise ship for precisely this kind of eventuality. 

But I’m afraid nobody was thinking about them. 

You have the advantage of seeing the situation from a distance. 

“What about the villains? Get them!” you say. 

Our heroes were in the thick of the moment, alas. 

Now that the dragon was flying free, they were worried only about getting themselves and the people around them safely to shore.

I will report one further tidbit, however, in the hope that it appeases you somewhat. 

Not many hours later, that same speedboat rendezvoused with a sleek white yacht somewhere in the middle of the Pacific. 

When Amber climbed aboard, she was immediately slapped across the face by a beautiful blond woman with long white gloves. 

And Brett senior? 

He was pushed back into the water by one of the yacht’s crew members and forced to swim, angry and humiliated, back to his speedboat.

It is no use, our trying to imagine what it was like for Clay to ride on Ariella’s back. 

The thrill of flying with a dragon is surely like nothing else. 

But lest you be too jealous of Clay, I have it on good authority that Ariella flew a little higher than Clay would have liked—he apparently got a nosebleed—and that he feared for his life more than once during their flight. 

Much worse, of course, was when the dragon landed—very close to the entrance of the dragon cave—and raised its neck so high that Clay had no choice but to slide off. 

I don’t think Clay necessarily expected to spend the night curled up in the cave with Ariella, but he certainly didn’t expect what happened next: As soon as Clay was safely deposited on the ground, the dragon beat its wings and was aloft again, heading not toward its volcano home but toward the sea. 

“So is this, like, good-bye?” Clay asked, unwilling to believe the dragon was really leaving. 

Dragons don’t say good-bye came the response. 

But as the great beast flew out over the ocean, it tipped its wing in a way that seemed to mean just that.

Later that evening, when Clay joined his friends on the beach, he noticed a glass bottle by his foot. 

Inside was a note in his brother’s handwriting.

What’s better than a knight who slays a dragon?

A knight who saves a dragon.

Clay looked around, hoping briefly that he might see his brother somewhere nearby, but of course he didn’t. 

No doubt Max-Ernest had left in pursuit of Amber and the Midnight Sun.

And yet, despite having been abandoned by the dragon and by his brother as well, Clay felt surprisingly happy. 

He didn’t even mind that it was Flint, risen from the half-dead, who was welcoming him and his friends ashore. 

He was just glad to be back on this island that was beginning to feel strangely like home.

Besides, he had an overdue library book to return.

EPILOGUE

It is not often that a dragon flies over that great smoggy basin known as Los Angeles. 

You might think that dragons would feel at home in a place once called the Land of Many Smokes, but to the best of my knowledge, there had been no dragon sightings there for thousands, perhaps millions, of years.

The time was barely five a.m., and the sky was still dark when the great winged serpent appeared on the horizon. 

It could have been a passenger jet returning from Japan or Hawaii, except for the slow, steady beat of its wings and the occasional swish of its tail.

A few sleepy kids boarding a whale-watching boat in San Pedro were the first to see it. 

They pointed excitedly, spilling their hot chocolates, but their parents were too absorbed in adult conversation to notice.

Soon others—sailors and dockworkers and truckers and sanitation workers—spotted the great flying beast. 

They captured fleeting images on their phones and sent them to their friends.

#giantseabird
#mutantflyingfish?
#lookslikeadragon
#theendiscoming

The dragon flew north along the coast, past the surfers of Huntington Beach and the Rollerbladers of the Venice Beach boardwalk. 

At the Santa Monica Pier, Latin American fishermen missed the first nibbles on their lines because they were staring up at la gran serpiente.

At Sunset Boulevard, the dragon turned inland and followed that legendary street as if it were a long winding river that stretched from the ocean through Beverly Hills and beyond.

As the dragon flew over the mansions of the rich and famous, normally reclusive residents stepped outside to catch a glimpse. 

Drivers gawked from their cars, causing more than one accident. 

Luckily, it was not yet rush hour. 

The traffic snarled but did not stop altogether, as it might have.

For its part, the dragon regarded the commotion with something like curiosity—if a beast as ancient and all-knowing as a dragon can be curious—but then seemed to lose interest, as if it had suddenly realized that all those smoke-spewing four-wheeled creatures below were metal, and wouldn’t make a very good meal.

The dragon passed more of LA’s postcard sites—Mulholland Drive, the Hollywood sign, the Griffith Observatory—without so much as a glance in their direction. 

But both Dodger Stadium and the Rose Bowl briefly caught the dragon’s attention. 

It circled the stadiums, perhaps mistaking them for volcanic craters or considering their possibilities as nests, and then it flew on.

By now, blurred footage of the flying beast was being uploaded all over the Internet. 

One picture that caught the dragon in a brown smoggy haze was particularly popular; #smauginthesmog was the most common hashtag.

The city was used to blimps and fireworks and movie-star sightings, but even in LA, a dragon was remarkable. 

Not since a decommissioned space shuttle had cruised over the city did a flying object command such widespread attention.

Amateur zoologists, special-effects specialists, and conspiracy theorists of all kinds examined every pixel of every picture on Instagram. 

They measured the dragon’s wingspan (just like a raptor!, a ten-year-old commenter noted) and its tail movements (too regular to be made by an animal, said one; too natural to be made by a machine, said another). 

They even took stock of the dragon’s chemical emissions and carbon footprint.

Most people assumed it was a fake, a drone aircraft dressed up as a dragon. 

Another movie was being filmed, probably. 

Or else it was a publicity stunt, a clever way to promote a new TV show or video game.

Some people speculated that the citizens of the City of Angels were experiencing a mass collective hallucination. 

With all the acting and filmmaking and general faking that went on in LA, Angelenos could no longer tell illusion from reality. 

Their lives had become a fantasy. 

Or so the logic went.

The people who came closest to the truth were, of course, the youngest children, whose minds were not closed to the possibility of a dragon. 

And the ranchers outside the city, whose livestock were soon lost to the dragon’s claws. 

They couldn’t afford not to believe.

In a matter of days, the dragon was largely forgotten. 

On to the next news cycle.

You see, when something exciting and inexplicable happens, the world wants to know about it; but if it remains unexplained for too long, the world turns away. 

We don’t want to know that there are things we don’t understand.

However, a few select and secretive groups of people around the globe—some of whom you have met in this narrative, others whom you may yet meet in another—knew exactly what they were seeing when they looked at pictures of the dragon on their newsfeeds. 

They knew the dragon was real, and they knew where the dragon had come from, if not where the dragon was going.

Some of these people rejoiced that the dragon was free; others were angry that it had escaped their grasp.

The bad guys had not won. 

But neither, it must be said, had the good guys. 

Not yet.

For the moment, at least, the dragon had won. 

And a dragon is neither good nor bad. 

It just is.

BACK MATTER *

MAGICA AND SCIENTIA: A MYTH

Long ago, when the earth had just learned to talk and the moon was still in diapers, a pair of twins was born. 

Magic and Science were their names—or Magica and Scientia, if you like your myths to sound mythological.

Magic and Science were smart, lively children, a girl and a boy respectively, and they loved each other very much.

Together they wondered at rainbows, studied the stars, and sailed the oceans; they concocted powerful potions and conducted explosive experiments; and they cavorted with all manner of creatures, many of which we no longer have names for, and most of which we would be very surprised to see roaming the world today.

When something happened that they didn’t understand, Magic and Science made up stories about it. 

When the earth shook or the skies stormed or a volcano erupted or they got pimples on their noses, they blamed the event on warring gods or raging monsters, or simply on the movement of the celestial spheres. *

These stories weren’t right or wrong; they were just stories. 

They were ways for Magic and Science to describe their world and their lives and their noses and other things that appeared in front of their faces.

But as they grew older, the siblings started to drift apart.

Magic was always showing off. 

Look at me, look at me, she would say. 

I can predict the future, I can make gold, I can live forever. 

Who needs boring old Science when you can have fantastic, fabulous, magical me?

Magic’s proclamations didn’t have much of a factual basis, and sometimes they were downright deceptive, but she was beautiful and fun, and her hair was always changing color, and for a long time she was more popular than Science.

Being only human, Science grew jealous.

One by one, Science started taking things away from Magic.

Look, said Magic. 

I can make a fire by rubbing two sticks together. 

They are my magic wands.

That’s called combustion, said Science. 

He stomped out the fire.

Well, watch this—I can make this apple move by itself, joked Magic. 

She let go of the apple, and it dropped to the ground. 

See, she said, and laughed.

That’s just gravity, said Science, not laughing. He picked up the apple and ate it.

Well, have you seen me light the night sky like Zeus himself? 

Surely that is magic, said Magic.

Lightning is electricity. 

It is science, said Science. 

And you’d better be careful or lightning might strike your umbrella and fry your precious hair—not that it isn’t already ruined by all that bleaching.

Science kept taking things for himself until even the stars themselves were his; no longer glittering jewels embedded in mysterious invisible spheres, they were just balls of gas floating in a void.

Once joyous and carefree, Magic turned cranky and careworn. 

You win, she said to her brother. 

Take everything. 

Just leave me alone. 

Rarely did she go out in public, and when she did, she wore tinfoil hats and walked her cat on a leash. 

She had been everyone’s favorite; now people called her a witch, a hag, a harridan.

Ha! I told you so, said Science. 

Magic is nothing. 

I, Science, am everything.

By now, Science was very strong and powerful; and, it must be admitted, he solved many of the world’s ills with his wide knowledge and his brilliant discoveries. 

Alas, he was not satisfied. 

For always there was something new that he did not understand. 

And when there was nothing new, there was still something very old, something that plagued him all his life; and his life was very long because although he was human, he was also a mythological figure, and mythological figures take a long time to die.

Almost as long as dragons take to die, and dragons were the very old thing that plagued him all his life.

No matter how hard he tried, Science could not explain dragons. 

They breathed fire, yet they had no internal combustion engines. 

They flew as if they were weightless, and yet their scales were as heavy as lead.

Worst of all, they smiled their terrible smiles, and Science never got the joke. 

He wasn’t even sure there was a joke.

You see, dragons are unknowable because they are the unknown. 

This may sound redundant, or like a tautology, if you know what a tautology is, but that’s only because you’re not a dragon. * 

At the same time, even though they are the unknown, dragons know all. 

Dragons are the wildest beasts in the world, but they are also the wisest. 

This may sound contradictory, or like a paradox, if you know what a paradox is, but again that’s only because you’re not a dragon. **

Unless you are a dragon. 

Which would very much surprise me. 

It would also scare me. 

I hope you’re not a dragon.

Back to the myth: Magic was not scared of dragons. 

She thought dragons were cute. 

At least, she thought they were cute when she was a young girl and she was lucky enough to see some baby dragons hatching from their shells. 

(*Awww.*) 

She had seen few dragons in the years since and now had no particular opinion about whether they were cute or not, but if pressed, she probably would have said not. 

When you are scorned by everyone you meet, you don’t find many things cute.

In any event, when a very old and very large dragon unexpectedly alighted on the doorstep of her cave, its long dragon tail knocking over her favorite yew tree and its fiery dragon breath singeing her cat’s fur, her first thought was not that the dragon was cute. 

Her first thought was that the dragon had better have a very good reason for visiting, and that is exactly what she told the dragon.

We are here because you called us, said the dragon. 

Although the dragon didn’t exactly say it. 

(As you may know, dragons don’t really say anything. If they want to communicate an idea to you, the idea just appears in your head as if it’s always been there. It’s a bit like being hypnotized. It can be disconcerting if you’re not used to it.)

I don’t remember calling you, said Magic.'

You will, said the dragon.

I will call you, or I will remember calling you?

A distinction without a difference, said the dragon. 

It is time to go.

Where are we going? asked Magic.

Humans never know where they are going; that is their curse. 

Dragons always do; that is ours.

Magic knew enough about dragons to know that when a dragon offers you a ride, you don’t say no. 

She climbed up onto the dragon’s back, taking only her hat and her umbrella.

Wait! cried Magic as the dragon took off with a great flapping of wings. 

We forgot my cat!

Did we? said the dragon ambiguously.

With its great dragon claws, the dragon scooped up the cat; and with its great dragon jaws, the dragon bit down on the cat. 

As Magic shrieked in surprise, the dragon flew away with her on its back, and one of those infuriating dragon smiles on its lips. 

WHAT IS THE MORAL OF THE STORY?
a) Never mind elephants; it’s dragons that never forget.
b) Dragons don’t like cats, except as snacks.
c) Science was right about one thing: Dragons have a terrible sense of humor.
d) Only when dragons return will magic be restored to our world.
e) All of the above.

* IN FACT, AS I’M SURE BRETT WOULD BE THE FIRST TO TELL YOU, THE GREAT BARRIER REEF IS NOT JUST ONE CORAL REEF; IT IS A GROUP OF REEFS THAT TOGETHER MAKE UP THE BIGGEST STRUCTURE IN THE WORLD TO HAVE BEEN BUILT BY LIVING ORGANISMS—SO BIG IT CAN BE SEEN FROM A SPACESHIP. OR SO THEY SAY. I MYSELF HAVE NEVER SEEN IT FROM A SPACESHIP, ONLY FROM A SUBMARINE—AND ONCE, MEMORABLY, FROM THE MAST OF A CATAMARAN.

* ACTUALLY, THE REASON A MUSTER ROOM IS CALLED A MUSTER ROOM IS NOT SO MUSTERIOUS. TO MUSTER IS TO ASSEMBLE—AS IN TO ASSEMBLE TROOPS, OR IN THIS CASE TO ASSEMBLE PEOPLE ON A SHIP. SIMILARLY, A MUSTER IS A GATHERING OR AN ASSEMBLY OF PEOPLE, USUALLY IN THE MILITARY. THUS, TO MUSTER ONE’S COURAGE IS SIMPLY TO GATHER ONE’S COURAGE. TO CUT THE MUSTARD, MEANWHILE, MEANS TO SUCCEED OR QUALIFY, AND LIKELY HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH MUSTERING AT ALL. SO WHY MENTION IT? BECAUSE I WANT TO OFFER THIS INVALUABLE PIECE OF ADVICE FOR ALL WHO FIND THEMSELVES MUSTERING IN A MUSTER ROOM, OR INDEED WHO FIND THEMSELVES SHARING ANY SMALL SPACE WITH OTHER PEOPLE: IF YOU WANT TO CUT THE MUSTARD, PLEASE DON’T CUT THE CHEESE.

* FOR SUCH A SOFT AND DELICATE LITTLE WORD, TENDER HAS MANY MEANINGS. YOU MAY TREAT PEOPLE WITH TENDERNESS BECAUSE YOU FEEL TENDERLY TOWARD THEM, OR SIMPLY BECAUSE YOU ARE TENDERHEARTED. IF YOU HAVE DONE A JOB, YOU SHOULD BE PAID IN LEGAL TENDER (I.E., MONEY). IF YOU AREN’T, I SUGGEST YOU TENDER YOUR RESIGNATION (I.E., QUIT). IF A SHIP IS TENDER, IT TIPS EASILY. LARGER SHIPS ARE USUALLY MORE STABLE, BUT THEY ARE LIKELY TO HAVE A TENDER OR TWO ABOARD. A TENDER IS A SMALL BOAT USED TO CONVEY PEOPLE OR THINGS BACK AND FORTH FROM A LARGER SHIP TO THE SHORE. ON CRUISE SHIPS, TENDERS DOUBLE AS LIFEBOATS, AND IF ONE HAPPENS TO SAVE YOUR LIFE, I AM CERTAIN YOU WILL FEEL GREAT TENDERNESS FOR IT.

* A TABLEAU VIVANT IS A “LIVING PICTURE” WHEREIN HUMAN—OR IN THIS CASE, ANIMAL—ACTORS POSE WITHOUT MOVING, STAGING A SCENE FROM HISTORY OR LITERATURE OR ART. JUST A MOMENT AGO, FOR EXAMPLE, WHEN I WAS SITTING AT MY DESK, STARING INTO SPACE, WITH A PEN FROZEN IN MY HAND, I DID NOT HAVE WRITER’S BLOCK; I WAS MERELY CREATING A TABLEAU VIVANT OF L’ÉCRIVAIN AU TRAVAIL. THAT’S “THE WRITER AT WORK” FOR YOU HELPLESS NON-FRANCOPHONES.

* TAKE DODGEBALL, FOR EXAMPLE. OR RATHER, DON’T TAKE DODGE-BALL. THE POINT OF DODGEBALL IS TO DODGE IT ENTIRELY.

** IN ITS BROCHURE, THE CAMP ADVERTISED ITSELF AS A PLACE WHERE KIDS “GAINED CONFIDENCE THROUGH CONTACT WITH THE NATURAL WORLD,” FAILING TO MENTION THAT AT EARTH RANCH THE NATURAL WORLD OFTEN APPEARED SUPERNATURAL.

* LEGERDEMAIN MEANS “SLEIGHT OF HAND” AND REFERS MAINLY TO CLOSE-UP MAGIC LIKE CARD AND COIN TRICKS. IT’S TRUE, I’VE NEVER BEEN ESPECIALLY SKILLED AT LEGERDEMAIN MYSELF, BUT I LIKE TO PRACTICE WHEN I’M WRITING, AND I’M GETTING MUCH BETTER, I THINK. EVEN AS THIS SENTENCE IS BEING TYPED, I AM HOLDING A COIN BETWEEN MY FINGERS. TALK ABOUT DEXTERITY! NO, I DON’T TYPE MY OWN BOOKS—THEY ARE DICTATED—BUT THAT IS A MINOR QUIBBLE, IS IT NOT?

* AS YOU CAN READ IN MY PREVIOUS BOOK, BAD MAGIC, IF YOU’RE CURIOUS (OR IF YOU JUST WANT TO IMPRESS ME), CLAY’S ROAD TO EARTH RANCH BEGAN WITH A GRAFFITI MURAL BEARING HIS SIGNATURE, WHICH APPEARED INEXPLICABLY ON A WALL AT HIS SCHOOL. AS IT TURNED OUT, THIS WAS ONLY THE FIRST IN A LONG SERIES OF NOT-SO-ACCIDENTAL EVENTS THAT CULMINATED IN HIS INDOCTRINATION INTO THE MYSTERIES OF PRICE ISLAND. WHAT PARTS OF HIS JOURNEY HIS BROTHER HAD A DIRECT HAND IN CLAY DIDN’T KNOW; BUT THAT HIS BROTHER HAD A HAND IN SOME OF THEM CLAY KNEW FOR CERTAIN.

* IN THIS WAY, EARTH RANCH REMINDED CLAY OF THE OLD DAYS, WHEN HIS BROTHER’S SURVIVALIST FRIEND CASS USED TO QUIZ CLAY DAILY ON WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF DISASTER.

* LASCAUX IS A CAVE IN SOUTHWESTERN FRANCE THAT CONTAINS PAINTINGS FROM THE PALEOLITHIC ERA. MORE THAN 17,000 YEARS AGO, ANCIENT ARTISTS DREW PEOPLE, ANIMALS, LANDSCAPES, AND ABSTRACT DOODLES ON THE CAVE’S WALLS (MUCH AS MODERN HUMANS DO ON THEIR ARMS). THESE PAINTINGS ARE STILL VISIBLE TODAY, THOUGH THE PUBLIC HAS BEEN BANNED FROM THE SITE FOR OVER FIFTY YEARS, EVER SINCE THOUSANDS OF VISITORS BREATHED ALL OVER THE ARTWORK, DESTROYING IN A FEW WEEKS WHAT HAD PREVIOUSLY LASTED FOR MILLENNIA.

* OF COURSE, ANOTHER POSSIBILITY WAS THAT THE EVENT HAD BEEN STAGED FOR CLAY’S BENEFIT. HIS INITIATION AT EARTH RANCH HAD INVOLVED AN ELABORATE, WEEKS-LONG CHARADE THAT MADE HIM QUESTION ALL LEVELS OF REALITY, BUT HE’D BEEN ASSURED THAT THE INITIATION WAS OVER, AND SO FAR HE’D HAD NO REASON TO DOUBT IT.

* PLEASE NOTE: I HAVE ABRIDGED AND MODERNIZED THIS SEVENTEENTH CENTURY TEXT FOR EASE OF READING—AND ALSO TO ENSURE THAT SOME OF THE MORE SENSITIVE INFORMATION IN THE MANUSCRIPT REMAINS SECRET.

* I BELIEVE THE PHRASE EXPEL-YOUR-ANUS WAS MEANT TO BE A JOCULAR REFERENCE TO EXPELLIARMUS, THE DISARMING SPELL IN A WELL-KNOWN SERIES OF CHILDREN’S BOOKS. HOWEVER, YOU MAY REST ASSURED THAT I DO NOT FIND THE REFERENCE FUNNY IN THE SLIGHTEST.

* HONESTLY, I’M NOT SURE WHAT MINDFULNESS IS, EITHER. DOES IT HAVE SOMETHING TO DO WITH MEDITATION? (I MUST MEDITATE ON THE QUESTION.) MINDLESSNESS, ON THE OTHER HAND… I’M SORRY, WHAT WAS I SAYING?

* THAT IS, THE LEFT SIDE WHEN FACING THE FRONT, OR BOW, OF THE SHIP, AS OPPOSED TO THE REAR, OR STERN, WHERE YOU WILL THE FIND THE DECK KNOWN AS THE POOP. (YES, I SAID POOP—WHAT OF IT?) THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE SHIP IS THE STARBOARD SIDE. IT MAY SEEM THAT THE STARBOARD SIDE SHOULD BE THE UPSIDE—IN OTHER WORDS, THE DIRECTION IN WHICH YOU ARE MOST LIKELY TO SEE STARS—BUT IN FACT THE STAR IN STARBOARD COMES NOT FROM THE NIGHT SKY BUT FROM AN OLD ENGLISH WORD FOR SNEERING. I’M SORRY, I MEANT STEERING. IT’S JUST THAT I WAS IMAGINING YOUR FACE AS YOU READ THIS FOOTNOTE. AND YOU’RE RIGHT. I’M NOT MUCH OF A SEAMAN, BUT I PROMISE I DO DO MY RESEARCH. I WOULD NEVER (WAIT FOR IT—YOU KNOW IT’S COMING) STEER YOU WRONG.

* HAVING BEEN RAISED IN PERU, THE LLAMA, COMO C. LLAMA (WHOSE NAME, TRANSLATED FROM SPANISH, MEANS WHAT IS YOUR NAME?), UNDERSTANDABLY UNDERSTOOD SPANISH MUCH BETTER THAN ENGLISH. IN CASE YOUR ENGLISH DOES NOT EXTEND TO THE WORD CAMELID, THAT IS THE FAMILY OF ANIMAL TO WHICH BOTH LLAMAS AND CAMELS BELONG.

** IN FACT, THE BEAR WAS NOT SO UNLIKELY. MANY ANIMALS ROAMED FREE ON PRICE ISLAND, BEING THE DESCENDANTS OF THE FORMER INHABITANTS OF RANDOLPH PRICE’S PRIVATE ZOO. THERE WAS A FAMILY OF LEMURS LIVING NEAR CAMP, AND CLAY HAD ONCE SEEN A SMALL HERD OF ZEBRAS RUNNING ACROSS A FIELD. AS FOR PRICE, HE WAS THE DEAD BILLIONAIRE WHOSE MONEY STILL KEPT EARTH RANCH AFLOAT. CLAY HAD BEEN TOLD MANY STORIES ABOUT HIM, A FEW OF WHICH MAY EVEN HAVE BEEN TRUE.

* ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS? I’M NOT. WELL, NOT VERY. SO MAYBE I HAVE TO WEAR THE SAME PAIR OF PURPLE POLKA-DOT BOXERS WHENEVER I SIT DOWN TO A GAME OF DOMINOES. THEY BRING ME LUCK. SOMETIMES. AND I PROMISE, I DO WASH THEM. OCCASIONALLY. THE QUESTION IS, AM I HURTING ANYONE? ANSWER: NO. OTHER SUPERSTITIONS, I’M AFRAID, ARE NOT SO HARMLESS. TAKE BRETT’S EXAMPLE: THE RHINOCEROS. IN ASIAN COUNTRIES, MANY PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT A RHINO HORN HAS MAGICAL HEALING POWERS. AS A RESULT, A SINGLE HORN SELLS FOR AS MUCH AS A MILLION DOLLARS, AND THE ENTIRE RHINO POPULATION IS BEING HUNTED TO EXTINCTION.  AND IT’S NOT JUST RHINOS. SHARK FINS. TIGER BONES. WHALE FECES. (YES, I MEAN WHALE POOP. AKA AMBERGRIS. ASK ME ABOUT IT SOME OTHER TIME.) ALL HAVE BEEN SOUGHT FOR THEIR SUPPOSED MAGICAL POWERS. IT MATTERS NOT THAT THESE POWERS AREN’T REAL; PEOPLE PAY ANYWAY. OF COURSE, AN ANIMAL WOULD HAVE TO BE VERY VALUABLE INDEED—MANY TIMES MORE VALUABLE THAN A RHINOCEROS—TO MAKE IT WORTH COMMANDEERING A CRUISE SHIP.

* NO DOUBT YOU ALREADY KNOW HOW TO REPRESENT THE LETTERS SOS IN MORSE CODE. HOWEVER, IT BEARS REPEATING JUST IN CASE: ••• − − − ••• (THREE SHORT BEEPS, THREE LONG, THREE SHORT). YOU NEVER KNOW WHEN THE NEED FOR A DISTRESS SIGNAL MIGHT ARISE.

* IN FRENCH, OBJETS MEANS “OBJECTS” (AS IN “THINGS,” NOT AS IN “MAKING AN OBJECTION”), AND TO BE HONEST, THERE WASN’T MUCH REASON FOR ME NOT TO WRITE OBJECT IN THE FIRST PLACE. BUT I THINK YOU’LL AGREE THAT THE FRENCH WORD HAS A CERTAIN JE NE SAIS QUOI THAT THE ENGLISH WORD LACKS.

* A BRIEF HISTORY OF DRAGON-SLAYING: ACCORDING TO MEDIEVAL MYTH, THERE WAS ONCE A FEARSOME DRAGON THAT TERRORIZED A TOWN FOR MANY YEARS. EVERY SO OFTEN, ONE CHILD FROM THE TOWN WAS CHOSEN AT RANDOM AS A SACRIFICE TO THE DRAGON’S VORACIOUS APPETITE. NO ONE WAS SAFE FROM THIS HORRIBLE LOTTERY, OR HUNGER GAME, IF YOU WILL, INCLUDING THE DAUGHTER OF THE KING. BUT JUST WHEN SHE WAS SLOTTED TO BE THE DRAGON’S NEXT DINNER, THE PROVERBIAL KNIGHT IN SHINING ARMOR, ST. GEORGE, ARRIVED ON A WHITE HORSE, PROMISING TO SLAY THE DRAGON, AND SLAY THE DRAGON HE DID. AFTERWARD, HE CLAIMED THE PRINCESS AS HIS WIFE—A FATE PRESUMABLY LESS ONEROUS FOR THE PRINCESS THAN BEING EATEN, BUT WHO KNOWS.… ST. GEORGE APPEARS IN MANY PLACES IN THE HISTORY OF ART AND LITERATURE, PERHAPS MOST FAMOUSLY IN THE EPIC POEM OF WIZARDS AND DRAGONS CALLED THE FAERIE QUEENE. DESPITE WHAT MR. BAILEY SUGGESTS, HOWEVER, ST. GEORGE IS NOT NECESSARILY THE FIRST TO HAVE SLAYED A DRAGON FOR A PRINCESS. LONG BEFORE THERE WERE STORIES ABOUT ST. GEORGE, THERE WAS THE MYTH OF ANDROMEDA, A PRINCESS WHO WAS CHAINED TO A ROCK AND SACRIFICED TO THE SEA MONSTER CETUS—ONLY TO BE SAVED BY THE ORIGINAL GREEK HERO, PERSEUS. PERSEUS, IT SEEMS, HAD A TALENT FOR MONSTER-SLAYING. HE WAS ALSO THE ONE TO BEHEAD THE SNAKE-HAIRED GORGON, MEDUSA. TAKE THAT, ST. GEORGE.

* THERE WERE, IN FACT, A FEW VERY LARGE, AND VERY UNFRIENDLY, WILD RABBITS ON THE ISLAND, BUT THEY WERE MOSTLY KEPT IN CHECK BY THE EVEN LARGER AND EVEN UNFRIENDLIER WILD PIGS.

* IN THE 1970S, SEEMINGLY SANE AND MATURE GROWNUPS WOULD TRY TO CONFRONT THEIR CHILDHOOD TRAUMAS BY SCREAMING AT THE TOP OF THEIR LUNGS. THIS LOUD AND NOT NECESSARILY VERY EFFECTIVE FORM OF THERAPY WAS POPULARIZED IN A BOOK CALLED THE PRIMAL SCREAM.

* A TEMPLE TO THE GODDESS ATHENA, THE PARTHENON IS BY FAR THE MOST FAMOUS EXAMPLE OF ANCIENT GREEK ARCHITECTURE AND A SYMBOL OF GREEK CIVILIZATION AT ITS PEAK. (A SYMBOL THAT HAS BEEN ROBBED AND PILLAGED SHAMELESSLY.) LIKE MANY RICH AND SELF-IMPORTANT PEOPLE OF HIS TIME, RANDOLPH PRICE BUILT HIS HOME IN A STYLE MEANT TO RECALL THE ANCIENT WORLD, AND THE PARTHENON IN PARTICULAR. BUT TO MOST PEOPLE, I SUSPECT, HIS HOUSE MORE CLOSELY RESEMBLED A BANK OR A COURTHOUSE—ONE OF THOSE “NEOCLASSICAL” BUILDINGS THAT SEEM DESIGNED FOR THE EXPRESS PURPOSE OF MAKING YOU FEEL SMALL AND INSIGNIFICANT

** THE ISLAND MIRA IS REFERRING TO IS THEMYSCIRA, ALSO CALLED PARADISE ISLAND, WHICH SOUNDS LIKE PRICE ISLAND (BUT POSSIBLY MORE EXPENSIVE). ACCORDING TO DC COMICS AND SOME GREEK POTTERY, THEMYSCIRA WAS THE HOME OF THE AMAZONS, THE ALL-FEMALE WARRIOR TRIBE OF ANCIENT GREECE. NOT TO BE CONFUSED WITH THE AMAZON RIVER, WHICH DERIVES ITS NAME FROM THE SAME SOURCE. NOR WITH THE GIANT, BOOKSELLING WEBSITE, WHICH, THOUGH SEEMINGLY INVINCIBLE, MAY YET SOMEDAY FALL PREY TO A VENGEFUL TRIBE OF WARRIOR WOMEN OUT TO RECLAIM THEIR RIGHTFUL NAME.

* THE STORY OF BRETT’S DISCOVERY HAD BEEN SLIGHTLY EASIER FOR HER FRIENDS TO SWALLOW THAN THE IDEA THAT HIS FATHER WAS HUNTING A DRAGON—BUT ONLY SLIGHTLY.

* WHY AM I SO DEFENSIVE ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR CHARACTER, YOU ASK? FUNNY, I WASN’T AWARE THAT I WAS. I STRIVE FOR FAIRNESS AND OBJECTIVITY, NO MATTER WHOM I’M WRITING ABOUT.

* SIDENOTE: I HOPE YOU LIKE THE SELECTIONS FROM SECRETS OF THE OCCULTA DRACO. THE BOOK IS ONE OF A KIND, BUT I HAVE TO CONFESS THAT READING THE WHOLE THING IS A BIT OF A CHORE. BELIEVE ME, I HAVE DONE YOU A FAVOR BY EXCERPTING SHORT PASSAGES.

* BRUMATION: BEING COLD-BLOODED (MUCH LIKE CERTAIN PEOPLE I WON’T MENTION), REPTILES LACK THE ABILITY TO WARM THEMSELVES. DURING WINTER MONTHS THEY ENTER A PERIOD OF DORMANCY SIMILAR TO THE HIBERNATION PRACTICED BY MAMMALS, NOTABLY BEARS, BUT MUCH LESS, WELL, FURRY.

* I KNOW, THE HERO OF A BOOK ISN’T SUPPOSED TO KILL AN ANIMAL, EVEN A FLY. IT’S HEARTLESS AND CRUEL AND A BAD EXAMPLE TO SET FOR YOUNG READERS. I’M SORRY. I HAD TO INCLUDE THIS TERRIBLE CRIME BECAUSE, AS YOU’LL SEE, IT PROVED VERY CONSEQUENTIAL. IT MAY EVEN HAVE SAVED CLAY’S LIFE. AND GUESS WHAT—ALL THOSE OTHER HEROES? THEIR AUTHORS MAY NOT HAVE SAID SO, BUT I BET MOST OF THEM KILLED A FEW FLIES IN THEIR TIME. OR AT LEAST STEPPED ON A FEW ANTS. I SPEAK FROM EXPERIENCE. WHEN I WAS YOUNG, I TRIED TO SPARE THE LIFE OF EVERY LIVING CREATURE I CAME ACROSS, NO MATTER HOW SMALL. BUT SOMETIMES, THROUGH NO FAULT OF YOUR OWN, YOU SIT DOWN IN THE WRONG PLACE AND—Squish!—BYE-BYE, BUG; HELLO, GROSS STAIN ON THE SEAT OF YOUR PANTS.

* THE ROYAL WE, MORE PROPERLY KNOWN AS THE MAJESTIC PLURAL, IS THE USE OF A PLURAL PRONOUN BY A MONARCH—OR A PERSON WHO MERELY REGARDS HIM- OR HERSELF AS A MONARCH—TO REFER TO HIM- OR HERSELF ALONE. EXAMPLE: THE PHRASE “WE ARE NOT AMUSED,” ATTRIBUTED TO QUEEN VICTORIA, WHO REPUTEDLY FOUND A DINNER GUEST’S SCANDALOUS STORY DISTASTEFUL. (I SWEAR IT WASN’T ME.)

* GENERALLY SPEAKING, TO DRESS IN DRAG IS TO WEAR CLOTHING OPPOSITE FROM WHAT IS EXPECTED FOR ONE’S GENDER. THUS A DRAG QUEEN IS A MAN DRESSED LIKE A WOMAN, AND A DRAG KING IS A WOMAN DRESSED LIKE A MAN. A DRAG NAME, MEANWHILE, IS A NAME CHOSEN TO GO ALONG WITH A DRAG PERSONA—THE MORE OUTRAGEOUS, THE BETTER. ONE POPULAR WAY TO CHOOSE YOUR DRAG NAME IS TO PAIR YOUR FAVORITE ICE CREAM FLAVOR WITH THE NAME OF YOUR FAVORITE PET. MINE: CHOCOLATE QUICHE, OF COURSE.

* TOLD YOU SO! WE ARE TO DRAGONS AS FLIES ARE TO US.

* ACTUALLY, WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO BRETT’S ENCYCLOPEDIC SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE, IT WAS MORE LIKELY THE INGREDIENTS IN THE DRAGON’S BREATH, NOT THE HIGH TEMPERATURE, THAT TURNED THE FLAMES BLUE. SULFUR, AMONG OTHER CHEMICALS, HAS THAT EFFECT.

* WISHFUL THINKING, YOU SAY? PERHAPS. BUT PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KNOWN TO FORGIVE A LOT OF THINGS, HOPING THAT THEIR PARENTS WOULD EVENTUALLY COME AROUND AND SHARE THE LOVE THAT THEY’D BEEN WITHHOLDING.

* AFT MEANS IN THE DIRECTION OF THE STERN. DON’T REMEMBER WHAT STERN MEANS? PITY. DID YOU NOT READ THE FOOTNOTE HERE?

* CHUTZPAH IS A YIDDISH WORD THAT MEANS, ROUGHLY, “GUMPTION” OR “BOLDNESS”; IT’S A WILLINGNESS TO DEFY EXPECTATION. BUT LIKE MOST YIDDISH WORDS AND PHRASES—SCHLEMIEL, SAY, OR MESHUGENER, OR EVEN OY VEY OR OY GEVALT!—THE WORD CHUTZPAH LOSES SOMETHING IN TRANSLATION. IT’S BEST TO REPEAT THE WORD ITSELF. EVEN IF YOU’RE NOT CERTAIN OF THE DEFINITION, YOU’RE SURE TO ENJOY PRONOUNCING IT.

* NOTE TO READERS: THE MAGICIAN WAS KIDDING. NEITHER MAX-ERNEST NOR HIS BROTHER, CLAY, EVER LIVED IN HOBOKEN. WHICH I’M SURE IS A VERY NICE PLACE AND SHOULD NEVER BE THE BUTT OF ANYONE’S JOKES.

* IF MIND CONTROL SOUNDS APPEALING TO YOU, CONGRATULATIONS—YOU’RE WELL ON YOUR WAY TO BEING A WRITER!

* DID YOU KNOW THAT MOST OF THE DRINKING WATER ON CRUISE SHIPS IS PURIFIED SEAWATER? PERSONALLY, I FIND THIS FACT TO BE FASCINATING AND THE ONE SMALL ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF CRUISE SHIPS. AS FRIGHTENING A PROSPECT AS IT IS, CRUISE-SHIP TECHNOLOGY MAY HOLD THE KEY TO A POST-APOCALYPTIC FUTURE THAT HAS US ALL LIVING IN ORBITING SPACECRAFT OR UNDERWATER PODS.

* BACK MATTER IS WHAT PUBLISHERS CALL ALL THE STUFF IN A BOOK THAT COMES AFTER THE LAST PAGE OF A STORY, SUCH AS AN APPENDIX OR AN ACKNOWLEDGMENTS SECTION. AS MY READERS KNOW, I USUALLY INCLUDE AN APPENDIX AT THE END OF MY BOOKS. (I NEVER HAVE ACKNOWLEDGMENTS BECAUSE THAT WOULD MEAN ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THERE ARE PEOPLE OTHER THAN MYSELF WHO HELP CREATE MY BOOKS, AND I WOULD NEVER ACKNOWLEDGE THAT!) AT THE SAME TIME, I’VE ALWAYS BEEN UNCOMFORTABLE USING THE TERM APPENDIX BECAUSE IT SOUNDS SO SERIOUS AND INFORMATIONAL; IT IMPLIES THAT THE READER MIGHT LEARN SOMETHING—A DUBIOUS PROPOSITION AT BEST. FOR THIS BOOK, I CHOSE THE TERM BACK MATTER INSTEAD BECAUSE IT REMINDS ME OF DARK MATTER—WHICH, AS YOU MAY KNOW, IS WHAT ASTROPHYSICISTS CALL THE MYSTERIOUS STUFF THAT MOST OF THE UNIVERSE HAPPENS TO BE MADE OF. NEITHER EMITTING NOR ABSORBING LIGHT, DARK MATTER HAS NEVER BEEN SEEN BY HUMAN EYES. ITS EXISTENCE IS PURE SPECULATION. WE KNOW NOTHING ABOUT IT, AND YET WE’D BE NOTHING WITHOUT IT. NOW, THAT IS THE SORT OF “INFORMATION” I CAN GET BEHIND. IF I CAN FIND IT.

* IN THE ANCIENT WORLD, SCHOLARS BELIEVED THAT THE STARS WERE EMBEDDED IN INVISIBLE SPHERES—MADE OF A FANTASTICAL FIFTH ELEMENT CALLED THE QUINTESSENCE—THAT ROTATED AROUND THE EARTH, LIKE GIANT JEWEL-ENCRUSTED BUBBLES. NOWADAYS, OF COURSE, WE KNOW OUR UNIVERSE TO BE RULED BY ANOTHER SORT OF CELESTIAL SPHERE ALTOGETHER—THE SORT THAT SURROUNDS A CELEBRITY LIKE A POP SINGER OR YOUTUBE STAR.

* A TAUTOLOGY IS A STATEMENT OR IDEA THAT REPEATS ITSELF IN ORDER TO PROVE ITS TRUTH, WHICH IS WHY A STATEMENT OR IDEA THAT REPEATS ITSELF IN ORDER TO PROVE ITS TRUTH IS A TAUTOLOGY.

** A PARADOX IS A STATEMENT OR IDEA THAT SEEMS TO CONTRADICT ITSELF BUT THAT MIGHT NONETHELESS BE TRUE. IF, FOR EXAMPLE, YOU WERE TO GAIN KNOWLEDGE FROM FOOTNOTES AS FOOLISH AND MIS-LEADING AS MINE, THAT WOULD BE QUITE PARADOXICAL. 

Bad News by Pseudonymous Bosc
FOR ASA CYRUS(EVENTUALLY)

FROM Secrets of the Occulta Draco; or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer

When people meet a Dragon Tamer, they ask many irritating questions, but the most irritating of all is: What is it like to ride a dragon—is it like riding a horse?

Usually, my answer is to stare at my questioners until they nervously excuse themselves and go away. 

(Word of advice: Do not try this at the palace.) 

But if I am feeling charitable, I may say something like this: “No, riding a dragon is nothing like riding a horse. Unless the horse is a wild horse, galloping as fast as the wind. And you are riding without saddle or reins, your seat no more comfortable than a cactus. And there is every reason to believe that you are about to fall off and plummet to an early and painful death. Then, yes, in that case, riding a horse might be a little like riding a dragon. But even then, you’d have the horse’s mane to hold on to. Dragons do not have manes. Some have horns, true, but I dare you to hold on to a dragon’s horn. By which I mean never hold on to a dragon’s horn. They don’t like it.” 

Here I pause, allowing my audience to imagine what a dragon might do to them if they dare touch the dragon’s horn. 

Then I continue in a mocking tone: “If not a horse, then what? you ask. A rhinoceros has a horn. Perhaps a dragon is a flying rhinoceros? Here’s a test: Would you be afraid to make the comparison in front of a dragon? If the answer is yes, better to stay silent.”

Now my voice turns to a growl. 

“In other words, to heck with horses! It is an insult to dragons. A dragon is not a mindless animal—a dragon’s mind is wiser and impossibly more complex than yours.”

When I get to this last bit, I narrow my eyes into my most intimidating glare, which, if I may say so, is very intimidating indeed.

“You really want to know what riding a dragon is like? First of all, you don’t ride a dragon; the dragon rides you. As soon as you climb onto a dragon’s back, you let go of the idea that you are in control. The dragon is the pilot; you are a passenger—no, a barely tolerated stowaway.“

A dragon is so strong that even the slightest flap of a wing will raise a wind forceful enough to throw you back to the dragon’s tail. 

When the dragon flies, your face feels as though it is being torn apart. 

Your hair whips behind you, or is shorn from your head altogether. 

Clouds blur as you pass them. 

Birds seem to rocket backward, so much faster are you going than they.

“Exhilarating? Certainly. If you are able to hold on. Oh, did I say you had to let go when you ride a dragon? It was a metaphor, a figure of speech, you nitwit.”

Here I’ve been known to jab my finger into someone’s chest. 

(Note: This also is not a good thing to try at the palace.)

“You can’t really let go, obviously. You have to hug the dragon’s mighty neck, dig your nails into the dragon’s scaly skin, squeeze your legs into the dragon’s massive sides. And don’t let go for a single second. Or else.

“And when, as sometimes happens, the dragon makes one of its fabled leaps, then it is not only the dragon you must hold on to, but also your head. As the old ones tell us, Let not a dragon leap when you’re astride, lest you lose your mind on the other side.”

That much of the saying is well known, and it is true that a dragon’s leap is not for the faint of heart. But there is more, known only to the followers of the Occulta Draco. Of course, I do not repeat the rest to strangers, but to you, dear apprentice Dragon Tamer, I will impart the whole: 

Let not a dragon leap when you’re astride, 
Lest you lose your mind on the other side. 
Yet if you must this dizzy journey make, 
Three things will keep you woozy but awake: 
First, your enemy’s sword will point the way.
Next, the shield you made will keep ghosts at bay.
Last, if you’d not return your brain half-dead, 
Please, a helmet from home put on your head.

CHAPTER ONE

THE SECRET IN THE CRATER

There wasn’t supposed to be a moon.

It was just a sliver, barely a crescent. 

Still, it cast more light than she would have liked. 

Even in her black clothes, her face smeared with soot, she stood out against the rocks that spilled down the sides of the giant crater.

Pausing in the shadow of a boulder, she pulled her night-vision goggles off her head—she wouldn’t be needing them after all—and considered how best to move forward. 

In a few moments, she would reach the top of the ridge. 

And she had no idea what or whom she would find waiting for her. 

Rather, she had several ideas, none of them cause for optimism.

If only she’d gotten there two days earlier, she would have been making her ascent in perfect darkness, as planned. 

The problem was that instead of the anticipated four days to cross the Kalahari on foot, it had taken six. 

Or six nights, to be more precise. 

Traveling by night was cooler.

Also safer.

Supposedly.

Of course, she’d met with her fair share of mishaps anyway, hadn’t she? 

The scorpion that fell out of her hat. 

The herd of Cape buffalo that forced her to walk three miles out of her way. 

The “water hole” that was really a mud hole. 

(Luckily, she’d spent a good portion of her childhood reading about quicksand.)

And then there were the humans—nomadic San people. 

They couldn’t believe she was traveling alone. 

No guide. 

No camel. 

No cell phone. 

Her cover story about being an ultra-marathoner did not convince them. 

Running a hundred miles in the hot desert just because? 

So instead she told them she was a student from the university, studying the effects of drought on local animal populations. 

This they could believe. 

Although they still had a big laugh over her experimental sweat-conserving jumpsuit. 

They were right about the jumpsuit; it made her so hot that she sweated out more water than she saved. 

(Her experiments with urine were another story. A story better left untold.) 

In the end, she’d spent an entire evening listening to their observations about the Namib Desert beetle—a fascinating creature, to be sure, but she lost precious time. *

Never mind. 

Survivalist rule number one: Don’t dwell on what can’t be fixed.

She felt around in a side pocket of her backpack, where she kept her energy bars—she’d packed a few as a special treat, despite the excessive sugar and nonbiodegradable packaging. 

There was only a half bar left.

“Well, you wanted to travel light,” she muttered to herself, breaking the half in half.

She popped one piece into her mouth and then stowed the rest for later.

Hoisting her backpack onto her back, she resumed her climb.

She would just have to summit as fast as she could and hope to find cover on the other side.

She breathed a sigh of relief when she got to the top. 

There were no sentries pointing guns at her, just a narrow plateau surrounded by jagged rocks. 

She was exposed for only a moment before she was able to crouch behind a ledge and look around. 




No sign of cameras or motion detectors, she noted. 

Maybe they assumed that nobody would be foolhardy enough to come up there.

Below her was the crater proper, a three-mile-wide bowl protected on all sides by walls of rock and miles of desert. 

An impressive sight, even in the dim light of the moon. 

What bribes or tricks the enemy had employed to lay hold of this vast natural fortress in the middle of nowhere she did not care to know. 

What concerned her was why they wanted it in the first place. 

They claimed in public documents to be building a “nature preserve and resort hotel,” but there was very little nature to preserve. 

All life at this location had been destroyed by a meteorite thousands of years ago. 

As for a hotel, the crater would be nearly impossible for most tourists to reach.

Why, then, were they there? 

What nefarious activity required such an enormous and remote location?

She’d been trying to answer that question for months when she heard a rumor about a secret and very technologically advanced breeding program. 

The rumor sounded far-fetched, yes. 

But when it came to them, nothing was truly far-fetched. 

Her colleagues had urged caution, but she felt there was no choice: She had to investigate.

She put a scope to her eye and peered down into the distance. 

The satellite photos that she’d studied before her trip must have been older than she thought. 

Or else construction was proceeding very fast.

Twinkling lights revealed at least three more buildings than she remembered.

And she was nearly certain that the lake hadn’t been there before. 

Not to mention all those trees. 

Tens of thousands of them, it looked like. 

Where are they getting the water? she wondered. 

Talk about environmental irresponsibility. 

It was as though they were trying to create their own tropical ecosystem in the middle of a desert.

She glanced at her watch. 

She had to get down there, survey the site, plant the hidden cameras and chemical-emissions sensors, and then climb out—all before daybreak. 

Less than three hours… EEEYAHYRR! 

A terrible screech pierced the silence.

What on earth—?

She stood still for a moment, then heard it again. 

EEEYAHYRR! 

It was not a human cry; nor was it like any animal cry she’d ever heard. 

Nevertheless, it was a cry of distress—of that she was certain.

It sounded quite close, but she couldn’t tell where it was coming from.

Cautiously, she made a circle, looking above and below and in the surrounding rocks. 

She saw no signs of life, not even a weed. 

Perhaps the creature was farther away than she thought.

She was on the verge of giving up the search when a new sound caught her attention. 

It was a softer, hissing sound this time. 

And it was coming from directly beneath her.

Suddenly very nervous, she turned on her flashlight.

And then she saw it.

About four feet down. 

Stuck in a crevice. 

Its yellow eyes staring, unblinking, into the flashlight’s beam. 

It was about the size of a small dog or maybe a very large owl. 

And its wings and tail were twisted together so that it looked like nothing so much as a bat being attacked by a snake.

And yet there was no mistaking it for anything other than what it was.

She studied the creature in mute astonishment.

So the rumors were true; she had suspected as much, but it was another matter entirely to see the evidence in real life.

How could anything be at once so fierce and so fragile, so earthly and so unearthly?

EEEYAHYRR!

It screeched again, its mouth opening to reveal several rows of sharp teeth. 

She took a step backward. 

She couldn’t tell whether the screech was an angry warning or a desperate plea, but either way, the creature was likely very dangerous.

Moving slowly, she leaned in again. 

One of its wings was torn. 

There were almost certainly some broken bones.

It couldn’t have been very old. 

It looked like it was still a baby.

Without assistance, it would probably die where it was. 

But how to help?

She had a first-aid kit, of course, but she wasn’t sure whether human medical supplies would work on fairy-tale animals. 

Or even whether she could pull the creature out of the crevice without it scratching her eyes out.

She had to earn its trust. 

But there was hardly time for that.  

“Are you hungry? No nut allergies, I hope,” she whispered, reaching around to her backpack and pulling out the remaining bit of energy bar. 

“Normally, I wouldn’t feed machine-made food to a wild animal, but this isn’t really a normal situ—”

Her words were interrupted by a decidedly machine-made roar. 

She looked up to see a helicopter heading straight toward her.

She swore under her breath.  

How could she have been so careless? 

In her concern for the injured creature, she’d forgotten to stay out of sight.

By now the helicopter was hovering low in front of her. 

It looked slick and new, like a helicopter one would expect to see ferrying executives to an office tower rather than patrolling a desert. 

Except, that is, for the extensive weaponry jutting out from either side. 

If it was a helicopter for executives, they were executives in a war zone.

She hesitated. 

The ledge where she’d taken cover before would hardly protect her from cannons like those.

Maybe she should jump over the side of the crater and scramble down the rocks, hoping she could lose her pursuers. 

In her mind, she went over the supplies in her backpack. 

She had ropes and grappling hooks. 

Flares that might provide a moment’s diversion… 

No, it was too late. 

Only a magician could disappear fast enough. 

She had many skills; vanishing into thin air was not one of them.

Besides, if they shot at her and accidentally hit the baby dragon, she would never forgive herself.

The helicopter’s floodlight hit her eyes, temporarily blinding her. 

The pilot’s voice boomed over the sound of the spinning blades: “Put your hands over your head and don’t move.”

Cornered, she did as ordered.

She thought about the various cover stories she’d used before.

None seemed to explain why she was infiltrating their half-constructed nature preserve in the middle of the night, dressed like a ninja.

As her eyes adjusted to the light, the helicopter landed in front of her on the small plateau, blowing sand in all directions.

A woman leaned out of the passenger side, her platinum hair gleaming in the darkness.

“Mon dieu. Is that who I think it is?”

Her pale face registered only the slightest surprise.

“It’s been ages, darling, but I would know those pointy ears anywhere. How kind of you to visit, Cassandra.…”

Cass’s pointy ears tingled in alarm at the sound of her name. 

It had been well over a decade since she last heard that chilling voice; and yet suddenly she felt as if she were a young girl again, forever caught in the clutches of Ms. Mauvais.

CHAPTER TWO

THE VIEW FROM NOSE PEAK

Although located on an island, and thus by definition surrounded by water, Clay’s summer camp, Earth Ranch, was tucked inside a valley, with mountains separating it from the ocean on all sides. 

If you wanted a glimpse of the ocean, the closest vantage point was a rocky hill called Nose Peak in honor of the unique geological formation on top. 

Nose Peak was steep and slippery, and, strictly speaking, campers weren’t supposed to climb it (or “peak the nose”) without special permission. 

But it was an open secret that Clay made the twenty-minute climb every day at dawn, usually returning only after the sun had risen well into the sky.

This morning, like most mornings, he sat with his legs straddling the big rock proboscis, staring at the horizon.

Price Island was home to a volcano, Mount Forge, which regularly belched smoke into the air and blanketed the island with a hazy layer of vog (volcanic smog).

The volcano had been especially active lately. 

As a result, it was difficult for Clay to see very much. 

Still, every so often, something would catch his eye—a dark cloud, a large seabird, a shadow on the ocean—and he would get to his feet, an expectant expression on his face, only to sit down again a moment later, evidently disappointed.

Nearby, a llama sat with his legs tucked underneath his body so that he looked almost like a second, smaller rock formation. 

The llama never moved from this position, but whenever Clay stood, the llama would shake his head, as if disgusted by the behavior of his human companion.

“I know, Como, you think I’m totally loco,” said Clay, after the llama had shaken his head especially vigorously. 

“But I swear, Ariella’s coming back. El dragon viene aqui.”

The llama, whose full name was Como C. Llama and whose first language was Spanish, regarded Clay with undisguised skepticism.

“So what if it’s been over a year—that’s just like uno minuto for a dragon,” continued Clay in his broken middle-school Spanish.

The llama snorted dismissively.

“Es verdad,” Clay insisted. 

“They have this whole other idea of time.”

The llama yawned and nibbled on a stray wildflower.

“Admit it: You don’t want Ariella to come back.” 

Clay looked at Como, daring the llama to contradict him.

The llama looked back meaningfully.

“What?! Dragons don’t eat llamas,” Clay protested. 

“And, uh, okay, even if they do, Ariella knows you’re mi amigo. Ariella would never eat you.”

Como sniffed and turned away.

“Come on, bro. You know that’s not what I meant. You probably taste awesome.… Oh, whatever. I’m not hablo-ing with you anymore.”

An old book lay beside Clay, weighed down by a small rock. 

Covered with a tough, scaly hide that had yellowed with age, the book was called Secrets of the Occulta Draco; or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer.

Sighing, Clay removed the rock; immediately, the book opened, then closed, then opened again, pages fluttering noisily. 

Before the book could fly away, Clay gripped it firmly, and the pages settled into place.

He’d read the whole book three times already, but there was one passage in particular that he kept going back to: Let not a dragon leap when you’re astride, lest you lose your mind on the other side.

What kind of leap? 

Just a jump, or something else? 

And what “other side”—the other side of what? 

The counselors at Earth Ranch spoke often of some mysterious and powerful Other Side—an Other Side with capital letters—by which, as far as Clay could make out, they meant the magical side of the world. 

A fourth, magical dimension. 

But it seemed doubtful that a guy who was writing more than four hundred years ago would be swallowing the same mystical hogwash as the counselors at Clay’s hippie summer camp. 

And even if the two Other Sides were one and the same, what did it have to do with dragons?

Clay’s reflections were interrupted by a loud spitting sound; Como was trying to get his attention. 

Standing, and not looking particularly happy about it, the llama nodded toward the horizon.

Clay squinted.

The wind had changed direction, blowing most of the vog away from this side of the island, and now the morning sun reflected dazzlingly on the water. 

The view was almost impossibly bright, but in the middle, directly below the sun, was a small dark spot. 

It was not much more than a dot, but the shape of wings was unmistakable. 

Far out over the ocean, something—something big—was flying toward them.

“No way!” Clay’s heart thumped with excitement. 

“I mean, do you really think…?”

Not responding, the llama sat down again, duty done.

With his hand to his forehead, Clay strained his eyes, waiting to see if the unknown flying object really was Ariella.

A moment later, he looked down, shoulders slumped. 

It wasn’t a dragon; it was an airplane.

Figures, Clay thought bitterly.

The truth was, Clay had no real confidence he would ever see Ariella again, only a desperate hope. 

Sure, he’d rescued Ariella the previous summer when the dragon was chained inside a storage container and about to be shipped away like a circus animal.  
But the proud creature had made it clear that this brief episode did not mean they were friends in any sense that a mere human would understand.

Afterward, Ariella had barely said good-bye, let alone anything about returning to Price Island. 

And yet, for a few precious minutes, Clay had been allowed to fly on the dragon’s back—by far the best, most electrifying (and also most terrifying) experience of his life. 

Joined with the dragon, he’d felt at one with himself for the first time. 

He couldn’t bear the thought of never having that experience again.

“Boo.”

Clay looked over his shoulder. 

His friend Leira, who had an annoying talent for treading softly, had crept up behind him.

“Do you always have to do that?” Clay griped.

“Hmm. Let me see.…” 

Leira took off her cap and scratched her short red hair, pretending to ponder the question. 

“Yes.”

She looked up at the sky. 

The airplane—a seaplane—was circling the island, getting ready to land in the shallow water. 

They could hear the whir of propellers in the distance.

“So I guess you figured out that Owen’s on his way.”

Clay nodded grumpily. 

“I thought he wasn’t back for another three days.”

Owen, the seaplane’s pilot, ferried campers to and from the mainland, and he made biweekly trips to deliver supplies.

“I know, it’s weird. You’re supposed to go meet him.”

“Me? Why?” said Clay, surprised.

Leira shrugged. 

“No idea. Buzz sent me to get you.… Well, not me, exactly. I just tagged along for fun.”

She gestured behind her, where a small hive’s worth of bees were hovering in the air. 

They spelled out these words: CLAY TEEPEE NOW 

As Clay watched, the bees flew out of formation, making one big, buzzy, blurry cloud. Then they divided once more, forming three very emphatic exclamation marks: !!! 

“Okay, okay, I’m coming—chill!” Clay shouted at them.

“Hey, can I ask you something?” he said to Leira as they started walking down the hill.

Leira smirked. 

“No, I won’t be your girlfriend.”

“Seriously…”

“What?”

“Do you think Ariella will ever come back?” 

He nodded toward Como, who was plodding along the trail ahead of them. 

“That guy thinks I’m crazy.”

“I don’t know, Mowgli. Some people might say it’s crazy to talk to a llama.” *

“Don’t call me that. And you’re not answering the question.”

“What question? That reminds me. Missing anything?”

“Why, what did you take this time?” Clay asked suspiciously.

Leira, who was an incredibly skilled pickpocket and thief, frequently stole things from Clay—for sport. 

She smiled innocently. 

And held up the Occulta Draco.

“That book is, like, four hundred years old and maybe the only one in the world!” Clay complained, irate. 

“Do you know what Mr. B would do to me if anything happened to it?”

“If it’s so priceless, why’d you leave it on that rock?” said Leira, handing it over.

“Oh, I did?” said Clay, grimacing.

“Sorry—”

“Or maybe I lifted it from your backpack.” Leira grinned. 

“Can’t remember.”

Clay laughed. 

“Why am I friends with you…?”

Ahead of them, two old garbage-pail lids with rope handles had been left leaning against a rock.

Wordlessly, they placed the garbage-pail lids side by side and sat down on them.

“Ready?” asked Leira.

“You know it,” said Clay. 

“Eat my volcanic dust.”

Together, they pushed off and started sledding down the scree-covered slope, spinning and bouncing as they went, the llama trotting behind.

CHAPTER THREE

THE MEETING IN THE TEEPEE

Have you ever been called to the principal’s office without knowing why? 

(Or perhaps knowing why but not knowing what your fate will be?) 

Clay, I am somewhat reluctant to report, had been called to the principal’s office more than once. 

At Earth Ranch, the director’s teepee was the closest thing to a principal’s office; so it was with a familiar sense of dread that Clay landed at the bottom of Nose Peak.

As Clay handed over his garbage-lid sled for Leira to return to his cabin, she made him promise that he would tell her what the meeting with the director was about. 

“Maybe they’re finally kicking you out!” she said brightly.

Then she ran off, the two sleds on her back clanking against each other.

What had he done wrong lately? 

Clay played back the past few days in his head.… 

The previous morning, he got caught skipping out on weeding, but everybody was expected to skip once in a while, right? 

And then he was busted for putting chocolate chips in his oatmeal, but again, nobody could exist entirely on the camp diet of seeds and sprouts. 

The day before, he had skateboarded on top of the picnic tables—a more serious offense, no doubt. 

But serious enough to get him sent home? 

Not when everyone, including the counselors, had laughed and applauded. 

And anyway, Pablo, not Clay, had made the skateboard.

It seemed far likelier that an emergency of some sort had brought Owen back to the island. 

Had something happened to Clay’s parents? 

Or to his brother? 

Yes, Clay decided, it had to be his brother. 

His brother the hypercautious hypochondriac. * 

Despite (or because of) his excessive efforts to stay safe, Max-Ernest had always been accident-prone. 

Images of hospital beds and funeral parlors swam around in Clay’s mind.

The atmosphere at camp did nothing to reassure him.

Earth Ranch was built on the shores of Lava Lake, a long, crescent-shaped lake that was normally a brilliant tropical turquoise; today, though, the surface was dark and moody, and swirling like an oil slick. 

At the far end of the lake, smoke rose in a steady stream from Mount Forge, roiling the sky with ominous gray clouds. 

Vast lava flows, black except where the edges burned orange, slowly advanced down the sides of the volcano.

Meanwhile, the camp’s ever-changing but previously omnipresent rainbow kept flickering in and out, sometimes vanishing for minutes at a time, only to come back brighter than ever. 

According to the counselors, the rainbow acted as a sort of supernatural “barometer,” measuring the level of magic in the island’s atmosphere. * 

At the moment, this level appeared to be extremely unstable.

As Clay led Como into the barnyard, a random assortment of chickens and turkeys and goats and sheep crowded around Clay. 

Nudging him in the leg and other less comfortable places, they snorted and bleated and honked and squawked.

“Don’t bust a gut, guys,” said Clay. 

“I fed you already, remember?”

A man in a beekeeper suit—Buzz—addressed Clay from outside the gate. 

“Did you get my message?”

“Yeah, I’m on my way.… Do you know why I’m supposed to see Mr. B?”

Buzz shook his head. 

“No idea. But it sounds urgent.”

Clay swallowed. 

He didn’t like the sound of sounds urgent.

Around him, the animals continued to complain noisily, scratching the fences and pawing the ground. 

“What are they saying?” asked Buzz.

“I can’t tell—they’re all talking at once,” said Clay.

“Then tell them to speak one at a time,” said Buzz, as if this were a perfectly obvious solution.

Buzz was the only person at camp who could relate to animals in the way that Clay could, although Buzz’s particular gift was an ability to communicate with bees. 

Clay, on the other hand, seemed to be able to talk to most species, at least to some degree. 

He simply spoke and animals understood him—not his words exactly, but the intent behind them. 

It was the same when they spoke to him. 

He couldn’t have done a word-for-word translation of barks or neighs, but he always seemed to understand what the dog or horse was trying to say.

“Um, guys, quiet, please,” said Clay, in what he hoped was a stern but not unkind tone. 

“You.” 

He looked at one of the goats. 

“What’s going on?”

As the goat bleated heatedly, Clay tried to focus on her and ignore the other animals.

“It’s the smoke in the sky; they’re not digging it,” he said to Buzz, after a moment. 

“But the volcano’s always acting up, and I’ve never seen them behave like this.”

“They must sense something different this time.”

With great effort, Clay managed to slip out the gate without letting any animal inmates escape.

“Like what?”

“Oh, maybe a disturbance in the Force.”

Clay looked at Buzz’s face, which was partly hidden under his beekeeper hat. 

Was he joking? 

Buzz was Earth Ranch’s resident yogi-wizard-Yoda type, and he often invoked Star Wars in perfect seriousness.

“You mean the Other Side?” said Clay tentatively.

“Maybe,” said Buzz. 

“Randolph Price chose this island years ago because he was certain it was a power spot. It’s only a guess, but this latest eruption may not be simple geophysics.” * 

Clay struggled to understand.

“So then the Other Side is underground? The way you guys talk about it, I always thought of it as behind the sky.”

“Who says it can’t be both? The Other Side is everywhere and nowhere.” 

Buzz smiled and pointed upward. 

“Speaking of the sky, looks like your meeting is coming to you.

”It was the second time that morning that Clay had seen something big flying toward him, but this time there was no mistaking it for a dragon.

As the teepee sped over the lake, heading toward camp, it spun this way and that, looking as though it were about to tip over at any moment. 

Yet somehow, whether because of Mr. B’s expert steering or some mysterious balancing spell cast years ago, the teepee managed to descend from the sky without any passengers falling out.

When Clay finally caught up with it, the teepee was floating at the far end of the lake’s long but narrow beach. 

The teepee kept skirting the shoreline, as if debating whether to land or go for a swim.

Owen stuck his head out the flap door. 

“Hi, Clay. Right on time… Eli, how do I stop this thing?” he shouted over his shoulder.

“You don’t!” came a voice from inside. 

“You pilot your plane; I pilot my teepee!”

At these words, the teepee lowered itself almost but not quite to the ground and then stopped moving. 

Even so, Clay nearly fell over as he entered; stepping into the teepee was like stepping into a rowboat on a choppy sea.

“Sit down, Clay, before you knock over the teapot!”

The teepee pilot—Eli, aka Mr. Bailey, aka Mr. B—a small, round man with big mutton-chop sideburns, put a hand on the tall glass teapot resting on the brass tray in front of him. 

Flowers and herbs and other less identifiable botanicals steeped inside the pot.

On the other side of the teepee, Owen, the seaplane pilot, was settling back on a pile of cushions, a teacup in hand. 

Younger, taller, and slimmer than Mr. Bailey, he had a shaved head and a scruffy chin. 

A master of disguise, Owen was usually to be found playing one role or another—whether a ponytailed airplane mechanic or a cantankerous old janitor—but for the moment he seemed not to be playing anyone but himself.

Clay chose an empty spot to sit down, whereupon he discovered he had an unwelcome view of Mr. B’s naked hairy feet.

“Is it my brother?” he asked Mr. B, unable to hide his anxiety. 

“Is he okay?”

“Your brother’s fine,” the camp director reassured him.

Owen laughed. 

“Or as fine as he ever is. You know Max-Ernest.… Actually, I’ve got a message from him. Well, a mission, really.”

“A mission?”

The knot of tension in Clay’s stomach relaxed (his brother was alive, at least), but it was soon replaced by a bilious ball of indignation.

In the year that had passed since his first summer at Earth Ranch, Clay had seen his older brother exactly once. 

Max-Ernest had promised to come home sometime in the spring to visit, and indeed he did come—for all of one day. 

A day that Max-Ernest spent arguing on the phone with his old friend Cass while Clay skateboarded around the block over and over, waiting for Max-Ernest to pay some attention to him.

When the attention finally came, it consisted mostly of Max-Ernest criticizing him for not wearing a helmet.… 

To which Clay responded that he was almost fourteen years old and he would do what he wanted.… 

To which Max-Ernest responded that you could crack your head open at any age.… 

To which Clay responded, you’re never around anyway, so what do you care if I crack my head open?… 

To which Max-Ernest responded, depends, is that like cracking a joke?… 

To which Clay responded, huh? 

That isn’t even funny.… 

To which Max-Ernest responded, you’re right, it’s not. 

Cracking your head open is never funny.… 

And that was pretty much that.

And now Max-Ernest had the nerve to send Clay on a mission?

“That’s right, a mission,” said Owen. 

“For the Terces Society.”

The Terces Society. 

That was the secret organization to which Max-Ernest and Cass had belonged since childhood. 

Max-Ernest had always kept Clay away from his Terces Society activities. 

He wouldn’t even confirm that Terces was secret spelled backward. 

Clay had had to figure that out for himself.

“And for the SOS,” Mr. Bailey added. 

“It’s a joint operation, you might say.”

SOS. 

Society of the Other Side. 

That was them. 

That is, Mr. Bailey, and the counselors and campers at Earth Ranch. 

Last year, by agreeing to stay at camp, Clay had agreed to join the SOS, but he hadn’t thought of the SOS as the kind of group that sent you on missions. 

It wasn’t like it was the CIA. 

Or the Terces Society, for that matter.

“Here—” said Owen.

He handed Clay a glossy black brochure. 

There was no picture on the front, only words: You’ve gone on safari in Kenya and ice fishing in Sweden.

You’ve ridden camels in Egypt and elephants in India.

You’ve been swimming with dolphins in Mexico and sharks in the Bahamas.

Now it’s time for the ultimate thrill.…

Frowning, Clay opened the brochure. 

Inside was a photograph of rippling sand dunes. 

In the center: the unmistakable shadow of a dragon flying above. 

“So they’re saying you get to… fly on a dragon?” asked Clay slowly.

Owen nodded.

“It’s some sort of wild animal park–style resort. Hasn’t officially opened yet. Still supersecret. The brochure is supposed to attract investors. We had to bribe a very exclusive travel agent to get it.”

“Is it for real?” said Clay, confused. 

“I mean, there aren’t any dragons left, are there? I thought Ariella was the only one in the world.”

“As far as we know, Ariella is the only one…” said Mr. Bailey. 

“But, yes, it’s for real.”

Clay looked at Mr. Bailey in alarm.

“Wait, you don’t mean they’ve got Ariella?”

“We can only assume so,” said Mr. Bailey gently. 

Everyone at camp knew how attached Clay was to the dragon. 

“I’m sorry. I know this is bad news.”

His mind reeling, Clay looked down at the brochure again. 

“The Keep—this is the place the Midnight Sun said they were building, isn’t it? The dragon sanctuary or whatever?”

“That would be the one,” said Owen.

Clay clenched his teeth. 

After all he and his friends had gone through to rescue Ariella, the Midnight Sun had captured the dragon again! 

It was too terrible to contemplate. 

And yet at the same time, squirming inside him, barely acknowledged, there was another feeling: relief. 

Maybe Ariella hadn’t abandoned him after all; maybe the dragon had simply been unable to come back.

“At first none of us believed the Keep was real,” said Owen. 

“Except for Cass. She was convinced that the Midnight Sun was using Ariella to breed more dragons, and she wanted to know why.”

“I can think of a few reasons.” 

Clay thought of a line from the Occulta Draco: He who has power over dragons has power over us all.

“I’m sure you can,” said Owen. 

“Anyhow, she went to the Kalahari Desert to investigate.”

“So what did she find out?”

“We don’t know,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“She disappeared.”

“Disappeared?” 

Clay repeated.

Mr. Bailey nodded gravely. 

“We think she’s been taken hostage, and we want you to help Owen bring her back.”

Clay blinked. 

Cass, a hostage? 

It seemed impossible. 

She was the most kick-butt person he knew.

Cass had been a constant presence in his life. 

When Clay was little, the young survivalist was always with Clay’s brother, and she always took the time to give Clay a key tip or two: like how to make a compass with duct tape and a cork, or how to use cayenne pepper to stop himself from bleeding. * 

Later, after Max-Ernest went away, she’d been the one to let Clay know that his brother was okay.

Now he was supposed to rescue her.

“Why me?”

Owen smiled. 

“Know anybody else who can talk to a dragon?”

“So you want to get Ariella out at the same time?” 

In the back of Clay’s mind, he’d already begun planning to do exactly that.

“I was going to go by myself,” said Owen. 

“Then we thought, we can’t rescue Cass and not rescue the dragon as well. Too dangerous—leaving it in the hands of the Midnight Sun. And who knows? A dragon might just come in handy when we’re all trying to get the heck out of there.”

“And my brother’s really okay with this? He doesn’t even like me to ride my skateboard.”

“I told him you’re the only person in the world that Ariella trusts,” said Mr. Bailey. 

“You’re the only man for the job.”

“Why isn’t he going? Wait—don’t tell me: He’s allergic to dragons,” Clay scoffed.

Owen laughed. 

“That would be his reaction, wouldn’t it? No, it’s because we’re going undercover, and Ms. Mauvais is there, and she would recognize Max-Ernest in a second. That a good enough reason for you?”

Clay shrugged, but he had to acknowledge it was a good reason. 

Ms. Mauvais was the notoriously cruel, and famously ageless, leader of the Midnight Sun. 

Clay didn’t know much about her, but he knew that his brother had had more than one unpleasant encounter with her over the years.

The camp director poured a cup of tea and handed it to Clay.

“Here, have a sip of courage. Nurse Cora made this tea specially.”

Clay sipped cautiously. 

Knowing Nurse Cora, sip of courage was not just an expression. 

Sure enough, the drink filled Clay with a pleasant tingling feeling that couldn’t be attributed simply to the tea’s temperature. 

He suddenly felt he was ready for anything.

“Well, what do you say?” asked Mr. Bailey. 

“Of course, we would never make you do something like this if you didn’t want to. It is an incredibly dangerous mission for someone your age to undertake. The Midnight Sun members are practically vampires, and for a day or two you will be entirely in their hands.”

“It’s okay,” said Clay firmly. 

“I’ll do it.”

But not for Max-Ernest, he said to himself. 

For Ariella. 

And Cass.

“Great,” said Owen. 

“I knew we could count on you.” 

He reached behind his back. 

“Your brother asked me to give you this.”

“Er, thanks,” said Clay, taking the gift.

It was a Day-Glo green skateboard helmet, decorated with graffiti-style words in various other Day-Glo colors: exclamations like RADICAL! GNARLY! awesome! mixed with skateboard terms like OLLIE and FAKIE and grind.

Did his brother really think Clay would like this helmet?

Just because he liked graffiti?

“There’s another surprise waiting for you outside,” said Mr. Bailey.

Oh great, thought Clay. 

Kneepads. 

Or would it be wrist guards? 

Bracing himself, he opened the teepee’s flap door.

CHAPTER FOUR

THE DRAGON IN THE YURT

"Brett! You’re the surprise?”

Brett grinned as Clay stepped out of the teepee. 

“About time! I’ve been waiting here forever.”

“I thought you were still on that ship,” said Clay. 

“With what’s her name—Captain Abad.”

“I am. I mean, not right this second, obviously, but most of the time, yeah. Can you believe she has me mopping decks and washing dishes? Moi? Brett Perry?” 

Brett shook his head, seemingly aghast and delighted at the same time.

“It’s like I joined the navy. Except I don’t even get to wear a sailor suit.”

Clay laughed. 

“She’s toughening you up.”

The previous summer, when Clay had found him washed up on the beach, Brett was half-drowned, dehydrated, and scared for his life, so maybe it wasn’t the best basis for comparison, but he certainly looked a lot better now. 

He still wore a bow tie—his “signature accessory,” he called it—but the tie was no longer black; it was purple.

“So you never made up with your dad?” Clay asked.

“You kidding?”

It was Brett’s father who had pushed Brett overboard. 

It was also Brett’s father who had led the Midnight Sun’s expedition to capture Ariella the first time around. 

Needless to say, Brett didn’t like him much. 

Neither did Clay.

“So your dad’s still hanging with those Midnight Sun types?”

Brett shook his head. 

“No. They ditched him when he wasn’t useful anymore. Serves him right. I think he’s in Mexico now.…” 

Brett trailed off as Mr. Bailey and Owen exited the teepee. 

“Anyway, these guys said you needed help. And it was a good excuse to take a break.”

“You’re not here to take a break,” Mr. Bailey corrected.

“Brett is here to coach you,” said Owen to Clay.

“He is?” Clay couldn’t hide his surprise.

“What? You don’t think I’m the coach type?” Brett laughed. 

“You haven’t heard what the plan is.”

The plan, it turned out, was deceptively simple: Clay and Owen would enter the Keep as guests, rescue Cass and Ariella, and then escape on Ariella’s back and in Owen’s plane, respectively.

Clay’s role: a rich kid eager to be the first guy he knew to see a real live dragon.

Owen would play the billionaire father taking Clay on the trip of a lifetime. 

To secure their place at the Keep, he had made a sizable financial contribution toward “dragon research and conservation efforts.”

Brett, who’d grown up as the real son of a real billionaire, had the rest of the day to prepare Clay for his part; at six p.m., Owen’s plane would be leaving for Namibia.

“… So I think you should say you go to boarding school,” Brett said later, over breakfast by the lake. 

“St. Matthew’s, maybe. That’s kind of like Andover or Choate, but a little less well known, so it’ll sound more realistic.”

“Uh, okay…” said Clay, not completely following.

Brett gestured toward the nuts and berries in front of him. 

“I can’t believe they call this breakfast—you eat like rodents here. Luckily, I brought provisions.” 

Grinning, he pulled a fistful of candy bars out of his pocket.

Clay laughed; this was the Brett he knew.

“Remember, it’s not just knowing names and places,” said Brett, munching chocolate. 

“It’s knowing what to think about them. Like, Saint Bart’s is okay, but you’d rather go to Tulum. For skiing, your family has a house in Aspen, but it’s such a scene, and anyway you prefer Gstaad.…”

“Gistot?”

“Gstaad. G-S-T-A-A-D. It’s in Switzerland.… The most important thing is that you be blasé about everything.”

“Blasé, got it,” said Clay. 

“Wait, what does blasé mean again?”

Brett gave him a look. 

“Blasé means blasé. It’s like bored, but with an attitude.”

“So basically I should be a jerk?”

“Basically.”

“But you’re not like that,” said Clay. 

“Well, you’re a snob, for sure, but not a jerk exactly.”

“Maybe not, but I’m different. I’m, well…”

Clay grinned. 

“A dork?”

“I prefer nerd,” said Brett, raising himself up. 

“But, yes, if you insist. The point is, I’m thinking of how you would be if you were rich.”

“And I’d be a jerk?”

“Let’s just say you’d think you were pretty cool. Or at least that everyone else was really uncool.”

“Everybody is uncool.”

“See what I mean?”

Before Clay could respond, Leira came up to them and whispered something in Brett’s ear. 

He nodded, smiling, and she ran off.

“What was that about?” asked Clay suspiciously.

“A surprise,” said Brett.

“Another one?”

“I’m supposed to take you to Big Hurt, I think she said?”

“Big Yurt. That’s what we call the big… yurt.”

“Original,” said Brett drily.

There were three yurts that formed a triangle in the middle of Earth Ranch: Art Yurt, the arts and crafts studio; Little Yurt, the infirmary, more often known as Puke Yurt; and Big Yurt, the camp’s multipurpose space and dining hall.

Above the entry to Big Yurt, a handwritten cardboard sign read: WELCOME TO THE KEEP Here be dragons!

When they reached it, Clay heard somebody shout, “He’s here!” and suddenly a strange mechanical creature made from wood and tin cans jumped out, clawing at the air and waving its tire-rubber tail. 

It let out a gear-rattling roar, and flames—mostly just sparks—came out of its mouth. 

It was a robot dragon. 

Clay immediately recognized it as the work of his friend Pablo.

“SURPRISE!” Clay’s campmates yelled from inside.

“Is this somebody’s idea of a going-away party?” Clay asked skeptically as he tried to edge past the dragon without getting pawed or singed.

“No, it’s your training room, you dope,” said Leira, who was waiting inside.

A girl who looked remarkably like Leira, but with long hair and a dress, stepped up to them. 

“Hello, monsieur, welcome to ze Keep,” said Leira’s twin sister, Mira, in a chilly French accent. 

“May I have somebody to take your luggage?”

“Uh, I’m good, thanks, Mira,” said Clay, not quite ready to play along.

“Who eez zis Mira? I am Ms. Mauvais, leader of ze Midnight Sun,” said Mira imperiously, and indeed, as she spoke, she seemed to be inhabited by the spirit of the ancient French villainess. 

(In reality, Ms. Mauvais’s accent was not nearly so strong, but let’s not quibble.)

Clay looked around. 

Pablo had just brought in the dragon and was moving it onto a high shelf, from which it would be able to pounce at will.

More hand-painted signs were hung around the inside of the yurt, arbitrarily identifying parts of the room as RESTAURANT, HOTEL ROOM, and DRAGON ZOO.

“Sorry, but isn’t this kinda, um… ridiculous?” said Clay.

“Mr. B told us to train you, and that’s what we’re going to do,” said Leira stiffly.

“Please, ’ave a seat,” said Mira in her Mauvais voice. 

“You must be very ’ungry after your journey.”

She motioned him to a table in the “restaurant” that looked as though it had been set for a fancy dinner—or a very makeshift, summer-camp version of a fancy dinner. 

Another one of Clay’s cabinmates, Kwan, grinned up at him from behind the table. 

Reluctantly, Clay sat down opposite Kwan, propping up his backpack in the corner.

“So, you gotta know which fork to pick up first, right?” said Kwan, gesturing to the array of mismatched cutlery on the table.

“Okay,” said Clay, resigned. 

“Which fork do I pick up?”

“Like I know?” Kwan laughed. 

“I can show you how to pocket a knife, though, if you want.”

“You go from the outside in,” interrupted Brett, who was watching from behind Clay’s shoulder. 

He pointed to the fork a person should use first.

“Does it really matter?” Clay complained.

“Yes!” Brett insisted. 

“The Midnight Sun members are very formal. And it would seem weird if you didn’t know this stuff, being who you are—even if you’re playing the rebel and you think manners are lame.”

“Rebel? I thought I was blasé,” said Clay.

“Blasé rebel.”

“A blasé rebel. Got it.” 

Clay folded his arms, trying to look like a blasé rebel.

“Well, blasé this, my friend—” Kwan started tossing pieces of cutlery into the air. 

They spun in flashing circles and then, one by one, vanished up his sleeves, behind his ear, or seemingly into thin air.

“And last but not least…” 

A single knife was left on the table. 

With a flick of a finger, Kwan sent it spinning into the air. 

It landed between his teeth. 

“Always handy to have a weapon on you, right?” he said, teeth clenched.

Clay laughed. 

“I’m not sure a butter knife is going to be much help against the Midnight Sun.”

Leira glared at Kwan. 

“He’s supposed to learn how to act rich, not how to entertain kids on street corners.”

She gripped Clay’s arm and pulled him to his feet.

“Let’s say you’ve gotten through dinner. Now you find where they’re keeping Cass.” 

Leira pointed to an old door that was leaning against the wall of the yurt. 

A sign on it read: HOLDING CELL—KASS INSIDE

Clay shook his head. 

“Why don’t I think they’ll have a sign like that?… And by the way, it’s Cass with a C.”

Leira scowled. 

“That’s just for concept. Now, here is my most prized possession,” she said, opening her hand.

“A paper clip?”

She gave him an I’m-not-joking look. 

“With this, you can pick almost any lock in the world.”

“Isn’t that Owen’s job? I’m the dragon guy.”

“It’s going to be all hands on deck.”

She pointed to the keyhole in the door. 

Clay tried inserting the clip in various ways while Leira gave him suggestions about angles and wrist movements and how much pressure to exert. 

Nothing seemed to work.

“Hmm, maybe you’d be better off stealing the actual key,” said Leira fretfully. 

“Let’s work on your pickpocketing skills. It all comes down to the three Ds: divert, detach, disappear.”

After Leira made him pick her pocket five or six times, never very successfully, Pablo took over the training session. 

He reached inside his mouth and pulled out a wad of chewing gum. 

“Here—”

Clay made a face.

(Pablo’s green hair and pimples made the gum even less appetizing.) 

“No, thanks, man. I’m good.”

“Better take it. It’s exploding chewing gum. If it stays unchewed for longer than thirty seconds, it ignites.”

“Really?” 

Disgusted, Clay took the gum and put it in his mouth.Pablo smiled. 

“Actually, that piece is just a stand-in. But I’ll have the real thing ready before you go, I promise.”

Clay hastily spit the gum from his mouth. 

“What do you think this is—a James Bond movie? I’m not going to have to explode anything.”

“You never know,” said Pablo earnestly. 

“For one thing, explosions work a lot faster than paper clips.” 

He looked with disdain at Leira’s prized clip.

“Did somebody say something about an explosion? I like explosions.”

An older teenage boy entered the yurt, an unpleasant smirk on his face. 

It was Flint, Clay’s least favorite person at camp—possibly his least favorite person anywhere.

He took Pablo’s dragon robot off the shelf and started playing with it. 

“Is this thing the dragon I heard about? Not very impressive, is it? Now, if you guys want to see some real fire-breathing…”

As the younger campers watched anxiously, he put his finger to his mouth and blew on it; a flame suddenly burned from his fingertip like a candle. 

He held the flame up to the dragon, and for a second the dragon breathed fire again. 

Then it exploded into pieces.

Flint grinned. 

“Oops.”

“You little…” 

Swearing, Pablo clenched his fists and—Clay’s friend Jonah, who’d been watching from the side of the yurt, grabbed Pablo. 

“Let it go. He’s a counselor now, remember?”

“That’s right, don’t forget it!” 

Laughing, Flint walked over to Clay. 

“You make about as convincing a rich kid as you do a Dragon Tamer.”

“I’ll take that as a compliment.”

“Don’t,” 

Flint sneered. 

“You think all this is going to prepare you for the Midnight Sun? They’re going to eat you alive.”

“You would know,” said Clay angrily. 

“You were the Midnight Sun’s spy. Or did you think we all forgot?”

Clay stared hard at Flint. He still couldn’t believe that Mr. Bailey hadn’t kicked Flint out of camp after learning about his betrayal. 

(“If I expelled everyone with a criminal record, there’d be nobody left,” Mr. B had explained, only half joking. “This camp is all about second chances.”)

Flint stared back at Clay. 

For a moment it looked as though he might slug Clay. 

Or shoot a fireball at him.

But he appeared to think better of it.

Flint eyed Clay’s open backpack. 

“Secrets of the Occulta Draco, huh? You steal that from the library again?”

Clay shrugged. 

“So? You should talk.” 

Flint had stolen the very same volume from the library the year before.

“Yeah, I should, shouldn’t I?” Flint walked out, chuckling.

“Bye,” said Kwan to his departing back. 

“Tool.”

Brett looked at Clay clinically. 

“Why would you admit that? Your problem is you’re too honest.”

“It’s one of his worst qualities,” Mira agreed. 

“He’s a terrible actor.”

Leira nodded somberly. 

“This is going to be a disaster.”

“He can’t handle this mission alone,” said Brett. 

“If only we could go with him.”

“Thanks for the votes of confidence, guys,” said Clay, not sure whether he wanted to laugh or cry.

Pablo looked from Clay to the others. 

A smile spread across his face. 

“I think I have an idea.…”

After his long training session, Clay barely had time to pack—in a trendy duffel bag borrowed from Brett—before it was time to go.

As his friends gathered by the ocean to see him off, he watched Owen transfer boxes to his dingy old seaplane via a small rowboat. 

Clay remembered the first time he saw Owen’s plane, more than a year before; he’d wondered then whether such a rusty piece of machinery could actually fly. 

If anything, the plane looked more beat up now. 

And this flight was going to be a lot longer than the flight to camp!

“Not a very swanky ride, is it?” said Kwan, standing beside him. 

“I mean, considering you’re supposed to be billionaires.”

Clay smiled thinly. 

His sense of humor had started to fade hours ago—just around the time he learned he was going to visit the Midnight Sun.

Pablo walked up to them, hiding something behind his back. 

“I’ve got one more thing for you to take.”

Clay eyed him warily. 

“What does a guy need besides exploding chewing gum?”

“This!” said Pablo, revealing what he was hiding: a black ski cap. 

Pablo tugged it over Clay’s head, messing up his hair and covering his eyes.

“Hey!” Clay protested.

“Did you forget I’m going to the desert? It’s going to be, like, a thousand degrees.”

“It’s for your character,” said Brett, before Clay could remove the hat. 

“You know, the hipster rich kid trying to look street. Don’t ever take it off.”

“Great,” Clay grumbled. 

The hat was already making his scalp itch.

“Well, it’s better than that helmet your brother gave you, anyway,” came a voice in his ear.

“What the—?” Clay reeled around. 

The voice in his ear laughed. 

It was Leira, but Clay didn’t see her anywhere.

“Look behind you.”

He glanced around and saw her heading up the beach toward them. 

She waved, revealing a large conch shell in her hand.

“Pablo made this rad long-range two-way radio with some hanger wire and this old shell,” she continued, talking into the conch. 

“So we can keep helping you when you’re out there playing dragon whisperer.”

“You mean, so you can keep making fun of me,” Clay said, imagining the long hours ahead, with Brett and Leira laughing at him in his ear.

“That too.”

He shook his itchy head. 

“Thanks. You guys think of everything.”

“Seriously, this way I can talk you through your first act of grand theft,” said Leira when she reached him. 

Her voice echoed in his ears. 

“When you want us, all you have to do is talk. If you don’t hear us right away, it means we put down the shell for a minute. Tap the side of your ski hat, and we’ll know to get on the line.”

“Okay, got it,” said Clay. 

“But can you stop talking into that shell? You’re giving me a headache.”

“Fine,” said Leira, reluctantly lowering the conch shell. 

“What else are you taking with you? What about the book?”

“The Occulta Draco? Yeah. I got it.”

Leira nodded slowly. 

“So you’re not worried about it getting into the wrong hands? Not that it would. I mean, unless…”

“Unless they catch me,” Clay completed her sentence.

“Right. But that’s not going to happen,” added Leira, a beat too late.

Clay hesitated, thinking about all the secrets revealed in the Occulta Draco. 

Besides, he’d read the book so many times, he practically knew it word for word.

“No, no, you’re right,” he said finally. 

“That would be bad. You’d better put it back in the library for me.” 

Clay reached into his backpack and felt around. 

“Wait, where is it…?” 

He gave Leira a look.

She shook her head. 

“I swear I didn’t take it this time.”

Clay stared at her. 

She looked so serious he almost believed her.

“Who, then?” Clay demanded, panic churning his stomach. 

He didn’t want to think about what losing the book might mean.

“I dunno. You sure you didn’t drop it somewhere?”

Clay thought back, trying to remember the last time he saw the Occulta Draco.

“Flint,” he said suddenly.

“What?”

“Flint took it. I’m sure he did. When he was in Big Yurt, my bag was open.” 

Clay looked up and down the beach. Flint was nowhere to be seen.

“C’mon, get in, Clay!” Owen shouted from the rowboat that would take them to the plane.

“Okay—just a sec!” Clay replied.

“Get it back from him,” he said quietly to Leira. 

“Please.”

She nodded. 

“I’ll try. And, hey, give me a shout when you need me.” 

She pointed to the ski hat on his head. 

“Any problem—I’ll be there.”

“Thanks,” said Clay, meaning it. 

“But don’t get all nice on me all of a sudden. You’re scaring me.”

Glancing around one last time, Clay started walking toward the water. 

With or without the Occulta Draco, it was time to go. 

CHAPTER FIVE

THE NEWS FROM CAMP

Clay started feeling grateful for the ski hat almost as soon as they were in the air: It muffled the roar of the engine, as well as the alarming clanking sounds that rattled the plane at frequent but jarringly irregular intervals.

Almost muffled them, that is.

He glanced over at the pilot.

“Hey, Owen…?”

Owen looked back at his young passenger. 

There was sweat on Clay’s brow. 

“Not to worry, pal—it’s going to take more than a little turbulence to knock this baby out of the sky. But if you have to puke, there’s a bucket behind your seat.”

He smiled reassuringly, but Clay noticed that Owen’s knuckles were white. 

He had a very tight grip on the seaplane’s steering wheel.

“Actually, it’s about the Midnight Sun,” said Clay. 

“This is going to sound totally crazy, but they’re not actually vampires, are they? That was just an expression, right?”

Owen hesitated, as though Clay’s question wasn’t crazy at all. 

“Well, some of them are pretty old—hundreds and hundreds of years old—but they’re not vampires exactly. They’re alchemists. The Midnight Sun is on a never-ending search for a potion that will make them live forever.”

“Okay…”

Their being hundreds of years old was not the same as their being vampires, but it was hardly any better. 

“And what’s with the white gloves? They really never take them off?”

“Never,” said Owen. 

“Because no matter how young their faces look, their hands always show their age.”

Clay shuddered, imagining their secretly withering hands.

“But do yourself a favor and act like you don’t notice the gloves. Asking about them is the quickest way to get your head bitten off.”

“They do that, too?” asked Clay, joking (mostly).

Owen laughed. 

“Well, maybe not literally.” 

He reached over and patted Clay on the shoulder.

“Whatever you’re worrying about, don’t. It’s all going to be fine. You saved Ariella once before, didn’t you?”

Clay tried to smile back, but then they hit the worst bit of turbulence yet, and he focused on sitting still and not losing his lunch.

Clay jerked awake to find that he had drooled all over his chin and the sun was peeking over the horizon. 

Below them, the dark ocean had been replaced by sunbaked desert.

“Morning, welcome to Africa,” Owen said. 

“We’re already over the Kalahari. About twenty minutes now.”

They passed over deep jagged ravines and wide desert plateaus. 

Past one particularly impressive canyon, a flock of birds appeared beside the plane. 

Clay watched them for a moment. 

Rather than flying in one direction, in a V formation, the birds swooped and dove, circling erratically.

“Is that… normal?” Clay asked.

Owen frowned. 

“I don’t think so.”

“They look lost.”

“Maybe their brains got scrambled by airplane sonar? Or a change in the magnetic fields?”

They’re scared, Clay thought as the flailing birds disappeared from view.

Owen pointed out the windshield. 

“There—that’s where we’re going.”

Clay peered out into the desert.

He could just make out the crater near the horizon; from this distance, the giant ring of rock looked like an upside-down bottle cap lying on the ground.

There was a crackling in Clay’s ear. 

As he clutched his ski hat, he heard Leira’s voice, shouting at him.

“Clay! Clay! Come in, Clay!”

“I hear you,” he said, wincing. 

“You don’t have to yell so loud.”

“It’s Mount Forge,” she said, slightly out of breath. 

“It’s erupting.”

“When is it NOT erupting?”

“Not like this.” 

Leira sounded uncharacteristically serious. 

“You should see it—like a geyser. And the lava’s heading right toward camp. I mean, you know how lava flows are—not exactly fast. But still, looks like we’re going to have to evacuate.”

“Evacuate?”

“Mr. B says you have to abort the mission and come back. Right now. We need the plane.”

“What about the teepee?”

“You think that thing can fly all the way across the ocean?”

Owen grabbed Clay’s shoulder. 

“What’s going on?”

“They want us to turn around.” 

Clay told Owen what Leira had said.

Owen let loose a string of swear words that I won’t repeat here, then abruptly cut it off. 

“Well, I guess we don’t have a choice, do we?”

Clay looked down at the crater, which was looming larger and larger in front of them. 

A moment ago, he’d been terrified at the prospect of staying with the Midnight Sun. 

Now he found himself unexpectedly disappointed to be aborting his mission.

More than disappointed. 

Devastated.

“Do we both have to turn around?” he asked.

“Huh?” Owen said.

“Huh?” Leira said in his ear.

Clay clenched his fists and sat up straight.

“I want to stay at the Keep, even if I have to do it alone.”

“You’re asking me to leave you there by yourself?” said Owen, incredulous.

Clay nodded. 

“But I won’t be by myself—that’s the point. Cass and Ariella are there. And if I don’t get them out, who will?”

“No way,” Owen said. 

“Your brother would kill me. Never mind Mr. B.”

“Say I jumped out of the plane before you could stop me. Besides, if they really need to evacuate camp, I’ll just be taking up more space.”

“Did you think I was just kidding about the Midnight Sun? These people… well, this isn’t like an overnight at your grandma’s house.”

“I know. Don’t worry—all I have to do is get to Ariella and I’ll be fine,” said Clay, hoping he sounded more confident than he felt. 

“Once that dragon is free, nobody can hurt me.”

“But how would you get back?” Owen said.

“On Ariella’s back. Wasn’t that the plan?”

Owen looked out over the desert, which was growing lighter all the time.

“Cass could die there otherwise,” Clay persisted. 

“Ariella, too.”

“All right,” Owen said finally. 

“I know I’m going to regret this, but okay.”

“Really?” Clay blurted. 

“I mean, good! I can do it—I know I can.”

“Are you sure?” said Leira in Clay’s ear. 

“Shouldn’t we ask Mr. B first?”

“NO!” said Clay. 

“I mean, please don’t. This is my decision.”

There was a pause at the other end. 

“Okay, but Brett and I are going to stay in your ear twenty-four/seven. We’re not letting you do this alone.”

“Don’t you have some lava to worry about?” Clay muttered.

“What?”

“Nothing.”

Clay glanced over at the pilot’s seat to see if Owen was having second thoughts. 

Owen stared out the windshield, grim but determined.

Directly ahead of them, the crater rose like a massive fortress out of the desert landscape. 

By the looks of it, the only thing harder than getting in would be getting out.

A moment later, the plane began its final descent.

“What’s that?” Clay asked. 

“Not a jet stream, right? Aren’t they usually white and puffy?”

Something had appeared in front of them: a bright silvery line, just above the crater. 

It looked like a cut or slit in the sky, as if someone had sliced into the sky with a gigantic knife, revealing some secret light source behind the blue. 

Clay almost thought he could see lightning inside. 

Or maybe blinking stars. 

The air around the line shimmered strangely.

“Dunno,” said Owen. 

“But you should probably be more concerned about what’s waiting on the ground.”

“Yeah, guess so,” said Clay, his whole body tense.

More birds flew around the plane, pinwheeling haphazardly. 

There was only one consistent thing about their movements: All the birds were heading away from the exact spot Clay was headed toward.

FROM Secrets of the Occulta Draco; or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer

I’ve said it before, and I’ll say it again: You cannot train a dragon. 

It cannot be made to hunt like a dog or to fly on command like a hawk or a falcon. 

Many are the falconers who have tried to train a dragon with hoods and ropes, as they train their birds; they have paid for their hubris with their lives. *

In short, a dragon is not your servant.

Still less is a dragon your friend. 

Friendship as such has no meaning to a dragon.

And yet, between our species and theirs, a relationship of mutual trust and respect is possible. 

In the Occulta Draco, we call this relationship an alliance. 

Like an alliance between nations, the alliance between dragon and Dragon Tamer must never be broken, else death and destruction will surely result.

How is the alliance made? 

Alas, there is no surefire method of allying with a dragon, any more than there is for allying with a person. 

Less so, in fact. 

Two people may at least have interests in common. 

There are no commonalities between dragons and people, and do not forget it.

However, broadly speaking, most alliances are forged in one of three ways:

1. The bestowing of a gift, such as food or gold. Be warned: Many gifts are interpreted by dragons as insults. Do nothing that will suggest that a dragon is needy or greedy.

2. The performance of a favor, such as the retrieval of an object from a place that a dragon cannot reach. Again, one must be careful not to insult a dragon by emphasizing any inability on its part.

3. A song. Though dragons cannot themselves make music, they are sometimes entranced by it. However, be sure that it is the right song and that you sing it well. There is nothing harsher than the criticism of a dragon.

CHAPTER SIX
THE AIRSTRIP IN THE DESERT

As Owen lowered the seaplane onto the Keep’s narrow landing strip, Clay kept looking up at the strange line in the sky. 

It seemed like a warning, like one of those marks hoboes leave on farmhouse walls: Danger! Evil people here—stay away!

He was on the verge of telling Owen not to land after all when the plane hit the ground with such a jolt that Clay was certain it would break into pieces on the spot.

“Does this thing even have wheels?” Clay asked, his face pale.

“Sure, but, well, she prefers the water, no question,” admitted Owen.

As the plane taxied to a halt, Owen kept one hand on the steering wheel and pulled his shirt off with the other. 

By the time the propeller stopped spinning, he was transformed: He wore a navy-blue suit and dark sunglasses, his bald head was as shiny as a billiard ball, and he looked ready to guest star as a villainous billionaire on a crime show.

“Here, you’ll be needing this more than I will.” 

Owen removed a diving watch from his wrist and handed it to Clay.

“What does it do?” asked Clay, his throat dry.

“Explode?”

“No. Just tells time.” Owen smiled. 

“Ready for nothing?”

“Yeah… definitely.” 

Forcing himself to move, Clay hoisted his backpack onto his shoulders and tugged the ski cap down around his head. 

He could feel a bead of sweat rolling down his back.

Owen nodded. 

“Let’s rock.”

With that, he opened the door, and they both jumped from the seaplane to the airstrip. 

Someone had rolled out a red carpet for them, but the plane had stopped just shy of it, so they had to make the awkward walk over to where the carpet began. 

The asphalt was so hot it made the air wavy, and Clay could feel the bottoms of his sneakers melting. *

At the end of the red carpet stood a jaunty blue-and-white-striped tent that might have been more at home at a Renaissance fair than on a landing strip. 
It was furnished with a couch and a ceiling fan. 

Parked nearby were several gleaming Cessnas, private jets that made the seaplane look like a broken sandbox toy.

As Owen and Clay approached, a young woman in a yellow sundress and an enormous hat emerged from the tent.

When she tipped her hat, Clay saw that it was Amber, Brett’s father’s ex-girlfriend and Clay’s brother’s childhood nemesis. 

Clay had only ever seen her in passing, and he was pretty sure she wouldn’t recognize him; now was the test.

“Hello, friends!” Amber stepped onto the red carpet and spread her arms wide like a cheerleader’s. 

“Welcome to the Kalahari!”

Owen walked ahead of Clay and stuck his hand out to shake Amber’s. 

“Max Bergman,” he said in a brusque, confident voice that suggested he was used to giving orders. 

Clay was reminded momentarily of Brett’s father. 

“And this is my son, Austin. Thank you for having us.”

“Thank you for coming! And for that generous contribution to our work! I’m Amber, your, oh, let’s say, activity coordinator?”

Amber gave a self-deprecating laugh. 

Her brilliant white teeth looked straight out of a toothpaste commercial.

Clay exhaled. 

Evidently, she didn’t recognize him after all.

Before he could really relax, however, a large swarthy man stepped out from behind the tent. 

He had a big bushy beard and wild curly hair barely contained by a safari hat, and he was covered in dust and sand from head to toe. 

He looked like some monstrous creature risen out of the desert, the Kalahari cousin of the Abominable Snowman: the Abominable Sandman. *

“Sorry about my inelegant appearance,” he said gruffly, brushing sand off his shoulder. 

“The Land Rover’s radiator was acting up again.”

Amber smiled a little less enthusiastically. 

“Allow me to introduce the most important member of our staff: namely, our resident animal handler, and of course”—Amber lowered her voice for effect—“dragon wrangler, Vicente.”

The hairy sandman tipped his hat.

He motioned past the row of shiny Cessnas to Owen’s plane, now covered with a layer of dust and sand almost as thick as the layer covering Vicente. 

“I usually fly hawks or falcons, not airplanes, but isn’t that a seaplane?”

Uh-oh.

Clay tried to avoid looking at anyone.

Owen laughed. 

“You’re not insulting my trusty old Tempest, are you?! Actually”—he winked slyly—“don’t tell my office, but we came straight from Fiji. She may not look like much, but that old girl really knows her way around an island. Besides, my Gulfstream has the carbon footprint of a 747.”

Clay was pretty impressed with Owen’s acting job, but Vicente seemed less so. 

“Sure,” he said, looking between Owen and Clay with inscrutable dark eyes.

What was it the Occulta Draco said about hawks and falcons? 

Clay wondered whether Vicente’s experience with birds was the reason he was hired as a dragon wrangler.

Owen coughed. 

“So, I hate to cut this party short, but I got a really… badly timed phone call just before we landed.”

“Not an emergency, I hope?” said Amber, her eyes wide with concern.

“It appears I am being accused of insider trading.” 

Owen shook his head dismissively. 

“These days, everyone thinks you’re a thief if you run a hedge fund.”

“How awful!” Amber clucked sympathetically. 

“Believe me, we’re not so closed-minded here. Right, Vicente?”

She turned to Vicente for support, but the falconer-turned-dragon-keeper said nothing. 

He looked like he thought it very probable that Owen belonged in jail.

“Unfortunately, I have to turn right around to give a deposition,” Owen continued. 

“But Austin here, well, he’s been looking forward to this trip for weeks, and he’s heartbroken at the thought of having to leave. Is there any way… I hate to ask, but since we’re already here…”

“Of course he should stay,” said Amber. 

“We’ll give him the trip of a lifetime!”

“Now wait a second.” 

Vicente stepped forward, scowling. 

“I already have a kid to look out for. Not to mention a dragon or two.”

A dragon or two?

Clay thought. 

Was that just an expression?

“Don’t be silly, Vicente,” Amber said. 

“He’s not going to be any trouble at all. Anyway, it’s not your decision to make, is it?”

Vicente didn’t say anything more, but his glowering stare only became more intimidating. 

Clay swallowed nervously. 

He was going to have to watch out for this guy.

Amber turned back to Owen. 

“Well, Mr. Bergman, I wish you could stay with us and avoid that yucky deposition, but don’t worry about Austin. We’re gonna have a super time.”

“Yeah, real super,” mocked Brett in Clay’s ear.

“Terrific.” 

Owen turned to go. 

“I’ll be back as soon as I can.” 

Then he said casually to Clay, over his shoulder, “Be good. And try not to run up too crazy a bill.”

He gave Clay a subtle thumbs-up.

Clay’s very strong instinct was to run after Owen, yelling to his “dad” that he had changed his mind.

Nonetheless, he returned the thumbs-up—weakly—and remained rooted to the spot.

Amber sidled up alongside Clay. 

“Well, we had planned to have a drink in the tent, but with your dad on his way out, why wait? Let’s get to the dragons!”

Clay was barely paying attention, but he forced a smile. 

“Yeah, sure, okay,” he said with as much enthusiasm as he could muster.

“That’s the spirit,” said Amber.

“Wait, did she say dragons, plural?!” asked Leira, startling Clay by saying exactly what he’d been thinking.

“So that means they got Ariella to reproduce?” Brett marveled.

In the distance, Clay could already hear the seaplane’s engine revving. 

He turned and saw the propellers starting to spin.

There was no backing out now.

On the other side of the tent, a classic sand-colored Land Rover jeep awaited them. 

The Keep’s name was stenciled on the door—along with a slick logo that looked like it might be the emblem of a high-tech weapons manufacturer or multinational security firm. 

As Clay climbed into the back, Amber hopped into the passenger seat, holding on to her hat. 

“To the Keep, Vicente,” she shouted (obviously for Clay’s benefit, since there didn’t seem to be any other place to go).

Vicente kicked the Land Rover into life. 

Clay scrambled to buckle himself in as they left the smooth asphalt of the landing strip and made straight for a dirt road that snaked up the side of the crater.

“So how many dragons are there?” he asked, leaning toward Amber.

She looked over her shoulder. 

“All together?” Amber counted on her fingers. 

“Nine.”

“Nine?” repeated Clay, unable to hide his astonishment.

Amber nodded delightedly. 

“Yep. We’ve had four babies hatch just this week! You’re going to love them.”

“Wow… that’s… awesome,” said Clay.

Nine dragons. 

Nine Ariellas. 

It was a thrilling prospect. 

And a daunting one.

CHAPTER SEVEN

THE ROAD TO THE KEEP

The narrow, rocky road twisted back on itself time and again, each turn more treacherous than the last, until Clay had to shut his eyes. 

This was worse than riding in Owen’s seaplane; the only question in Clay’s mind was whether he would throw up before or after the Land Rover went tumbling down to the desert below.

In the front seat, Amber spoke quietly into a walkie-talkie. 

Then she clicked it off and smiled back at Clay. 

“Sorry! I know the ride’s a little rugged, but I promise it’s worth it!”

Eventually, they crested the crater’s rim. 

Behind them was the seemingly endless desert, but within the crater Clay could see what looked like miles of green jungle. 

A few buildings stuck out of the greenery, and he could see a row of tents. 

In the center was a long, sparkling lake.

If he squinted, it could almost be Earth Ranch, Clay thought. 

There was some similarity to the layout. 

Although here there was no rainbow, of course. 

It was as if he were entering a darker, eerier version of his summer camp.

The Land Rover made a steep descent, crossed over a small creek, and then wound its way under a canopy of trees dripping with vines. 

It looked like a tropical rain forest.

Amber gestured to the foliage around them. 

“We just planted all of this in the past year, but you wouldn’t know it, would you?”

Clay shook his head. 

It was true. 

Had she not said anything, he would have thought that the greenery had been there forever. 

The Keep was already weirder than any place Clay had ever been—but then how many other desert craters had been turned into jungles? *

“The idea was to create an island in the middle of the desert,” Amber explained.

Clay nodded, wondering if Price Island had inspired the design of the Keep. 

After all, it was the one dragon habitat they knew.

In any case, Ariella must feel at home here, Clay thought. 

Who knows, maybe Ariella had sensed Clay’s presence already. 

He tried reaching out in his mind but felt nothing.

“Getting close now,” said Amber.

Finally, the vines and ferns and bamboo trees cleared, and they drove under an arch-shaped sign decorated with the now-familiar logo. 

It was considerably larger, and considerably less welcoming, than the sign Clay’s friends had painted for him at camp: 

How would any unauthorized visitors get here anyway? 

Clay wondered. 

Then again, Cass had been an unauthorized visitor, hadn’t she? 

For that matter, he was an unauthorized visitor, too; they just didn’t know it. 

Yet.

A little ways past the sign, the Land Rover pulled into the courtyard of a large U-shaped building with a sheer glass facade, sides of stone, and half-zipper-style crenellations on top. * 

It looked like a medieval castle that had been split in two to make way for a slick modern hotel.

In the center of the courtyard, two huge dragons rose out of a fountain, frothing at their mouths. 

They looked ready to kill each other.

Clay held his breath—Then he realized that the dragons were statues—very lifelike statues—and the froth was only water. 

Amber giggled. 

“I know, they fool me every time.”

They parked next to the fountain, and Amber beckoned for Clay to follow her out.

“What about my bag?” he asked.

“What? Oh, don’t worry. Gyorg will get it.”

She gestured behind them: a squat, muscular bulldog of a man—Gyorg, presumably—had already grabbed Clay’s duffel bag and was now carrying it out of sight.

Brett complained in Clay’s ear.

“Didn’t I tell you? You never carry your own luggage in a place like that.”

Clay jumped out of the jeep before he realized that the courtyard was still under construction and there were mud puddles everywhere. 

Several feet ahead, Amber picked her away expertly across the ground. 

He tried to follow suit, but his shoes sank in the mud, and his pant legs got splattered. 

Terrific, he thought.

He would be tracking dirt everywhere.

“Oops!” said Amber, looking back at him.

“Forgot to warn you.”

“No worries—I’m fine,” said Clay, feeling anything but.

And there, waiting in the castle entryway, holding binoculars that were mounted like opera glasses on a long stick, was a woman whom Clay immediately recognized as Ms. Mauvais, though he had never seen her before.

Her perfect blond, blond hair was pulled back from her perfect pale, pale face with its perfect red, red lips, and she was dressed all in white, except for gold stiletto heels that were totally unsuited to the environment but that on her looked exactly right. 

She was the most beautiful woman Clay had ever seen. 

Or she would have been were it not for something in her expression—or maybe in her expressionlessness—that caused him to shiver. 

An inhuman cruelty he could sense even at a distance.

Or was he just imagining it because of everything he’d heard?

She nodded curtly to the new arrivals like a queen acknowledging the return of her soldiers. 

And then a very unexpected thing happened—she broke into a smile. 

At least, her lips curled upward in what appeared to be a friendly fashion; the rest of her face didn’t move.

“Austin Bergman, Esquire, I presume?” She looked reprovingly at Amber. 

“You didn’t tell me our new ward was so handsome, dear. Did you intend to keep him all to yourself?”

Ms. Mauvais turned to Clay. 

“Don’t worry, darling. Whatever Amber has said, we are delighted to have you, father or no father.”

“That’s just what I—” protested Amber.

Ms. Mauvais waved Amber away. 

“Go be a good girl and find Satya for me, will you?”

Reddening, Amber scurried off as ordered.

“Please do pardon the construction,” Ms. Mauvais continued graciously. 

“I hope you agree that you are lucky to be among the first to see the Keep, but it does mean facing an exposed wire or two. Très désolée.”

“That means she’s very sorry,” Brett whispered in Clay’s ear. 

“Tell her, er, de rien.”

“Day ree-en,” Clay hazarded.

His attempt at French seemed to delight Ms. Mauvais. 

“You speak French—wonderful! I daresay you’ll fit right in.”

She gestured for him to follow her into the Keep’s gleaming marble foyer. 

As they entered, Ms. Mauvais snapped gloved fingers over her head, and instantly two sweaty uniformed attendants appeared with glasses of sparkling lemon water on a tray.

“Er, thanks,” said Clay, taking one.

“So, what do you think of our little castle?” she asked as Clay gratefully sipped his water. 

“Given it’s a work in progress, of course.”

Clay looked around at all the chrome fixtures and sleek black leather furniture. 

They seemed like an odd juxtaposition with the medieval tapestries that hung on the walls, not to mention the full suit of armor standing guard by the front door, but what did he know? 

To him, the room didn’t look like a castle, or even a hotel, so much as an art museum. 

Certainly, it didn’t look very welcoming.

“Tell her it’s nice,” whispered Brett. 

“But don’t sound overly impressed. Remember, you’ve been better places.”

“Uh, it’s nice. That’s St. George, isn’t it, fighting that dragon?” 

Clay indicated one of the tapestries.

“Why, yes, I believe it is!” said Ms. Mauvais, a flicker of something like surprise lighting up her motionless face.

“St. George?” said Brett. 

“Where’d you pull that out of?”

“Don’t be too impressed,” said Leira. 

“It’s the only dragon-fighting knight he knows.”

Clay squirmed. 

He really wished they wouldn’t talk so much.

“In fact,” continued Ms.  Mauvais, eyeing him curiously, “that sword in there is said to be St. George’s. It’s called DragonSlayer.” 

She nodded toward a glass case in the center of the room. 

“Of course, it’s unlikely St. George ever existed, but it makes a nice story.”

Feeling intensely uncomfortable under Ms. Mauvais’s gaze, Clay studied the sword. 

The blade was long and wide and heavy-looking, and the hilt had blackened over time. 

In contrast to its gleaming surroundings, the sword appeared grimy and unpolished, and more than a little menacing. 

Had it really slayed dragons? 

It looked deadly enough.

“And this,” said Ms. Mauvais, leading the way to an adjoining room, “is the Ryū Room.”

Unlike the austere entry hall, the Ryū Room was opulently decorated with Asian art and artifacts: intricately designed rugs, delicate vases, and silken screens. 

There were dragons everywhere, but unlike the flying dragons in the tapestries, these dragons were mostly wingless snakelike creatures, as the dragons in Asian art tend to be.

“The ryū, as you no doubt know, is the legendary Japanese dragon,” she said, pointing to a dragon on one of the screens. 

“But we have objets from Korea, Malaysia, China.… Take this Ming dynasty vase.” 

She pointed to a large blue-and-white vase that depicted all manner of animals on land, at sea, and in the air. 

“Now, I wonder, can you tell me which of these animals is the dragon?”

Clay hesitated; he didn’t see any dragons.

“Never mind—a trick question,” said Ms. Mauvais. 

“They’re all dragons. In Chinese myths, dragons take the shapes of many animals.”

In the middle of the room stood a shiny red-lacquer bar illustrated with golden dragons, as well as a grand piano that was as long as a limousine. 

“Now, please, I know you’re exhausted, but I want you to meet your fellow guests. Don’t worry—there are only a few. Our group is very intimate.”

Sitting by the bar were several people wearing clothes that looked more appropriate for a night at the opera than for a day in the Kalahari. 

Did this mean they wouldn’t be going out to see the dragons? 

Clay wondered worriedly. 

Or did these people always dress this way?

Ms. Mauvais waved to one of the guests. 

“Charles, darling! Where have you been hiding? You must have snuck in while I was getting my morning treatments.”

A smoothly handsome man with smooth dark hair curled just so, Charles stood up from his seat at the bar and walked over to them, as comfortably as if he, not Ms. Mauvais, were the host. 

He wore a crisp white suit and, in place of a tie, a burgundy silk cravat around his neck. 

Like Ms. Mauvais, Charles was wearing white gloves, though his were not so long. 

Clay tried not to stare at them.

“Chère Antoinette,” he said suavely, “do not chide me for being unable to resist your charms.”

“Admit it: You wanted to see with your own eyes my petit jardin de dragons.”

“Oui, c’est une folie douce!” said Charles agreeably. 

He reached out and took Ms. Mauvais’s gloved hand in his, raising it to his lips.

“She said he wanted to see her little dragon garden,” Brett interpreted. 

“He called it a sweet madness.”

“Well, he’s got the mad part right,” Leira interjected.

“Shh!” said Clay under his breath.

Ms. Mauvais beckoned Clay closer.

“Charles is a dear old friend,” she said.

How old? 

Clay couldn’t help wondering. 

Hundreds of years?

Ms. Mauvais put a stiff hand on Clay’s shoulder. 

Her touch was strange, at once frail and forceful. 

Clay tried not to recoil. 

“And this is Austin. His father was called away on business, so he is ours for the weekend.”

“Lucky us!” Charles looked Clay over with a smile.

Ms. Mauvais next steered Clay to a table where an old man and woman were seated; that is, unlike the smooth-faced Ms. Mauvais or Charles, the wrinkles and spots on their faces showed them to be old—even older than the others, presumably. 

Two uniformed attendants sat across from them, cards spread out on the table between them. 

Judging from their unhappy expressions, the workers had been conscripted to play cards against their will.

“And here we have Mr. and Mrs. Wandsworth,” said Ms. Mauvais. 

“They are renowned world travelers and, as you see, passionate bridge players.”

Mrs. Wandsworth turned and regarded Clay over the thin gold rims of her bifocals.

With her attention elsewhere, her husband frantically tried to show one of his cards to his bridge partner.

“Please don’t do that, Reginald,” Mrs. Wandsworth said to her husband, without turning back around. 

“Cheating sets a poor example for the underclasses.”

Grimacing, Mr. Wandsworth re-hid his card.

Clay noticed that Mr. Wandsworth, too, was wearing white gloves, as was his wife. 

They were all members of the Midnight Sun.

Clay’s leg started to jiggle nervously. 

There was no telling what these people were capable of. 

If he was going to succeed in rescuing Cass and Ariella, or just get out alive himself, he had to keep up his guard at all times.

“Do you play bridge, young man?” asked Mrs. Wandsworth.

“Um, sorry, not really,” said Clay.

“All the better,” said Mrs. Wandsworth with a not-altogether-reassuring smile. 

“We’ll teach you.”

“She means she’ll fleece you for all you’re worth.” 

Charles met Clay’s eyes and winked.

Uncertain how to react, Clay looked away.

“Charles, how dare you!” Nose in the air, Mrs. Wandsworth turned back to Clay. 

“Despite his deep distrust of the players, Charles has consented to join us for a game after dinner, but we need a fourth. I am counting on you.”

Clay opened his mouth to protest, then decided to let himself be roped in. 

He would just have to find a way to get out of the bridge game later. 

His plan was to search for Cass after dinner if he hadn’t already found her.

“Yeah, okay,” he said. 

“I’ll give it a try.”

Ms. Mauvais coughed to get everyone’s attention. 

“S’il vous plaît, mes amis,” she said, clapping her glove-covered hands. 

“Now that we’re all acquainted, it’s time for the proverbial good news and bad news.”

Clay tensed. 

Bad news? 

Had she discovered the spy in their midst?

“As you know, we hope one day very soon to fly on the backs of dragons,” Ms. Mauvais continued. 

“Someday, we may even be able to outfit you in shining armor and let you duel with a dragon like St. George himself. No killing dragons, though—they’re far too expensive!”

The Wandsworths laughed mirthlessly. 

Charles merely smiled. 

Clay had trouble simply breathing.

“Alas, our dragons aren’t quite tame yet. And the largest ones are best seen from afar.”

So that was the bad news. 

Clay swallowed, relieved that his identity had not been revealed, but worried about Ariella. 

What were they doing to try to tame the dragons? 

Nothing pleasant, he was sure.

“The good news is that we can get up close and personal with the younger dragons, and of course with our brand-new hatchlings.” 

Ms. Mauvais looked inquiringly at her guests. 

“So why don’t we all freshen up and meet back here in twenty minutes? The first stop on our tour will be the nursery.”

She glanced at the doorway, where a young girl had appeared with a large gray bird on her wrist. 

“Satya, there you are!”

Hesitantly, Satya came over. 

She was about Clay’s age, with olive skin, freckles, and big hazel eyes; and she was wearing old jeans, a straw hat, and a long leather glove, the purpose of which was clearly to prevent the bird from digging its claws into her skin. 

Clay was happy to see that her other hand was bare; at least she was not a member of the Midnight Sun.

“What did I tell you about keeping that bird outside?” said Ms. Mauvais sternly.

Satya didn’t say anything.

“Satya?”

“You said that if I didn’t, you’d feed her to the dragons,” Satya replied, expressionless.

Ms. Mauvais nodded curtly. 

“If you thought I wasn’t being serious, then you misjudged. One more time and I will prove it.”

“Yes, ma’am.”

“Now, please, would you and your bird show our new guest to his quarters? He’s in the Beowulf Tent.”

Satya led Clay outside, stroking her bird. 

“It’s okay. Nobody’s going to hurt you,” he heard her say in a low tone.

The bird squawked. 

Satya continued to whisper in her ear.

Clay experienced a little spark of recognition; something about the way she spoke to her bird reminded him of the way he spoke to animals.

They walked down a pathway bordered by a thicket of ferns and many brightly colored lilies.

Insects buzzed around the flowers, but Satya’s bird seemed to take no notice of her surroundings; the bird’s piercing gaze was fixed firmly on Clay. 

Meanwhile, Satya herself didn’t so much as glance his way.

Clay, struggling to keep up with her, tried to think of something to say. 

It might be useful to make a friend, he told himself.

“What’s its name?” he asked, indicating the bird.

“It’s a her. And her name’s Hero.”

“Hi, Hero!”

Clay looked the bird in the eye, trying to communicate that he was a nice guy. 

The bird blinked, nonplussed.

“Ms. Mauvais wouldn’t really feed Hero to the dragons, would she?”

“Oh, yes, she would, but I’m not going to let her,” said Satya fiercely. 

“I’ll kill her first.”

“I guess you don’t like her very much, then?”

She gave him a withering look.

“Okay. Dumb question.”

“They think they own us, but they don’t. Nobody owns my dad.”

“Your dad?”

“Vicente. The dragon wrangler?”

Well, that figures, Clay thought.

His face must have betrayed something, because she said, “What? You think your dad’s better ’cause he’s a billionaire?”

“No!” Clay said, indignant. 

“I would never think that. I’m not really even—”

Before he could finish his sentence, Brett and Leira started shouting in his ear.

“Stop! Don’t say it!”

“She’s supposed to think you’re a spoiled brat, remember!”

Satya raised her eyebrows. 

“Not really even what?”

Clay shook his head in frustration. 

“Never mind.”

They came upon a row of tents, each a different color and each with a different pennant on top, as if they had been erected for knights entering a tournament.

Satya stopped in front of a bright red tent; its flag bore an illustration of a monstrous dragon and the name BEOWULF. *

“Well, here you go.…”

As Satya spoke, Hero lifted off from Satya’s arm. 

The bird landed on top of the flag, as if she were the owner of the tent.

“So this is where I sleep…?” said Clay, trying to prolong the moment.

Satya looked at him.

“I know. Another dumb question.”

She nodded, and a fleeting smile crossed her lips. 

“Got any more?”

Yeah, do you happen to know where they’re keeping a woman named Cass prisoner?

“Is Hero a hawk?”

“Falcon.”

“Cool. Fastest bird there is, right?” said Clay, hoping to impress the girl, if not the bird.

“Right.”

Clay thought he saw a flicker of interest in her face, but she turned away too quickly for him to be sure.

Satya waved to the bird. 

“Come on down, Hero. We have stuff to do.”

Hero squawked a warning at Clay, then flew back to Satya and resumed her perch on the girl’s wrist.

“By the way, a word to the wise: You might get hot in that hat. I promise it’s not going to snow.”

Smirking, Satya disappeared down the path.

Annoyed, Clay watched her and Hero go. 

Brett and Leira were laughing in his ski hat.

“Hey, look on the bright side,” Brett said. 

“At least your disguise is working.”

“Thanks,” muttered Clay, shoving the tent’s flap open.

Why did he care so much about Satya liking him? 

With any luck, he would be gone before morning.

CHAPTER EIGHT
THE TRUTH ABOUT THE DRAGONS

Twenty minutes later, two Land Rovers were whisking the Keep’s guests away from the castle and onto a rough jungle road—well, a rough road cutting through what was planted to look like a jungle.

Soon they had passed over a bridge, and Clay was staring wistfully out the jeep window at a thick canopy of bamboo that reminded him very much of Bamboo Bay on Price Island. 

Right above Bamboo Bay was the cave in which he had first discovered Ariella.…

Clay shook his head, reminding himself to focus on the task at hand. 

Somewhere nearby Cass was imprisoned; his job was to find her. 

Hopefully, he would free her that evening, and then they would seek out Ariella and fly away.

As the Land Rovers bumped along, he kept an eye out for possible holding-cell locations. 

Alas, they didn’t immediately pass any stone towers or cinder-block storage units, or even any padlocked shipping containers or boarded-up shacks. 

And he couldn’t imagine that Ms. Mauvais was keeping Cass outside in the jungle, tied up with vines.

Eventually, however, they stopped in front of a long warehouse-like building. 

A big windowless structure, it looked very much like a place in which one might lock up an unruly prisoner.

Stay alert, Clay told himself. 

If there was a chance to slip away from the others, he should take it. 

Easier said than done, of course. 

He looked at all the strangers around him and shivered despite the heat.

As everyone climbed out of the Land Rovers, a glass door opened and a woman wearing glasses and a lab coat stepped out of the building. 

She held a clipboard, and her straight black hair was drawn back in a tight ponytail. 

White gloves covered her hands: Was she another Midnight Sun member, or were the gloves just part of her uniform?

“Ah, there you are!” said Ms. Mauvais impatiently, as if she’d expected the woman to be outside, waiting at attention. 

“Everyone, this is Dr. Paru.”

“Welcome,” said Dr. Paru crisply, ignoring Ms. Mauvais’s tone. 

“If everyone will please follow me…”

Clay loitered outside as Charles and Mr. and Mrs. Wandsworth followed Dr.  Paru into the building. 

When Ms. Mauvais stepped up, he held the door open for her, pretending he’d lagged behind out of politeness.

“After you.”

She nodded, as if this behavior were perfectly normal. 

But why shouldn’t she? 

How was she to know he’d never held a door open for anyone before in his life? *

After the rest of the group had disappeared, Clay walked slowly down a long, fluorescent-lit hallway, passing several open doors. 

These all led into storage rooms of one type or another, and not, as far as Clay could see, to any secret dungeons.

There was one closed door toward the end of the hallway; steel-plated and unmarked, it looked promising. 

He hesitated in front of it.

Just as he was about to brave opening the door, Dr. Paru peeked her head around a corner. 

“I’m sorry, did we lose you?”

Clay spun around. 

“Sorry! For some reason I thought you guys had gone through this door,” he said, his heart beating rapidly.

“Nope,” Dr. Paru laughed. 

“That door leads to a waste-disposal unit. You should be very glad you didn’t go in.”

Clay smiled weakly. 

So much for his first attempt at being a spy.

At the end of the hallway, Dr. Paru ushered the group into a room that looked something like a high school science classroom. 

As her guests took seats, a video screen came to life behind her, showing a spinning globe and a time line.

“As you know, the last dragons disappeared over four hundred years ago,” she said, slipping into a rehearsed speech. 

“In terms of our planet’s history, that is just a blip. And yet, strangely, dragons have left almost no trace in the geological record.”

The image on the screen dissolved into a montage of scientists exploring mountains, deserts, caves, and even the ocean floor.

“For years, our team combed the world, searching for a stray tooth or claw, a fossilized tail, some telltale markings on a cave wall, but no—nothing. We began to fear that we would never find even a little bit of dragon DNA, let alone enough to clone. Perhaps dragons had never existed after all, we thought.…”

Seated in the back row, Clay wrinkled his face. 

Clone? 

Was that how the Midnight Sun had gotten their dragons? 

Had they cloned Ariella? 

It was an alarming thought.

“Then came the incident on Price Island—”

“About which the less said, the better,” interjected Ms. Mauvais coolly.

Clay held his breath. 

He was sure that “the incident on Price Island” referred to the first time the Midnight Sun had captured Ariella. 

Hopefully, nobody was thinking about the dragon’s escape and the role that certain young campers had played.

“At least we proved that dragons were real,” said Amber, reddening.

“All you proved was that you don’t know how to keep a lizard in a cage,” said Ms. Mauvais. 

“And that’s the last time I trust you with any responsibility. Pray continue, Dr.  Paru.”

Clay exhaled. 

They were moving on. 

Perhaps he would now hear how they had recaptured Ariella.

“After that we had an idea,” said Dr. Paru, as if there had been no interruption. 

“Instead of the natural world, maybe we should be searching the human world—somewhere protected against the whims of nature and yet out of reach of most people as well.”

A picture of a familiar sword flashed on the screen.

“It turned out that the thing we sought was right under our noses. DragonSlayer. In the incomparable collection of our own Mr. and Mrs.  Wandsworth.” 

Dr. Paru nodded in their direction.

Mrs. Wandsworth leaned over and whispered to Clay: “The sword is on loan only, of course. It is of inestimable value.”

“We noticed a lot of rust and grime accumulated on the blade,” Dr. Paru continued. 

“No one had ever wiped it off. It was as if there was a taboo against cleaning it. Could that be because the rust was not rust at all? Well, I’m happy to say, this time we hit the jackpot: dragon blood, dried and preserved over the centuries.”

Spinning strands of DNA filled the screen.

“We were able to reconstruct three full DNA sequences immediately. It remained only to find a means of bringing the DNA to life.”

She gestured to a basket of surgical slippers waiting by the doorway. 

“If you don’t mind putting slippers over your shoes…”

Dr. Paru led the group through a pair of sealed glass doors.

“You are now entering our main laboratory, where we experiment with the most minute building blocks of life.”

She stopped in front of a mysterious refrigerator-sized machine with mechanical arms and blinking lights. 

Another white-coated scientist was manipulating something inside the machine through rubber-lined holes in its sides. 

A nearby video monitor revealed what he was working on: a giant football-shaped egg in a bright shade of teal.

“Here the DNA is injected into an emu egg,” said Dr. Paru. 

“Early enough so that a dragon develops from the emu embryo.”

As Dr. Paru continued to explain what they were seeing, Clay tried to make sense of what he had just heard. 

If the dragons at the Keep were bred from old DNA, then they were neither Ariella’s clones nor Ariella’s natural offspring; they were totally unrelated to Ariella. 

They might differ from Ariella in any number of ways.

How well did Ariella get along with these other dragons? he wondered. 

How well would he get along with them? 

His mission was beginning to seem more and more complicated.

Dr. Paru looked at Clay, frowning. 

“Did you say something?”

Clay gulped. 

“I was just saying, ‘Wow, cool!’ That’s all.”

She looked pleased. 

“Yes, it is pretty cool. It’s not every day you get to bring an extinct species back to life.”

Phew, thought Clay. 

He’d have to hide his thoughts better.

Next, she led them into an adjoining room, where Vicente and Satya were waiting for them. 

The air here was warmer, and the light dimmer.

“And here are our newest additions,” said Dr. Paru.

It took Clay’s eyes a moment to adjust. 

And then he stared, awestruck.

On one side of the room sat four incubators lined with nests of hay. 

Inside each was a newborn dragon, no bigger than a Chihuahua. 

The dragons’ wings and tails looked sticky, as if they’d just hatched, and their shiny, scaly skins were a range of colors: two red-brown, one blue-black, and one a pale color that almost exactly matched the hay it was sitting on. 

They blinked and hissed and wriggled, not fully aware of what was going on but nonetheless annoyed by the interruption.

As Clay watched, the pale dragon accidentally found its tail, then bit into it—only to shriek and turn bright red all over, just as Ariella had done when angry. 

Evidently, this dragon had a similar chameleon-like ability to change colors. 

Maybe Ariella had a relative here after all, Clay thought hopefully.

“And here we have our two toddlers.…”

On the other side of the room stood a half dozen cages that looked like they might have been built to contain lions and tigers for a traveling circus. 

Only two of these cages were occupied, each by a young dragon about twice the size of the newborns. 

From the looks of the cages, though, the scientists expected them to grow. 

And fast.

To Clay’s surprise, these two larger dragons had cords tied to their arms, and on their heads they wore leather caps that covered their eyes but not their snouts. 

“Are those falcon hoods?” inquired Charles. 

“And jesses, I believe the cords are called?”

Dr. Paru looked at Vicente, who nodded. 

“Yep. We’re training these guys early. Made the mistake of starting too late with the older ones…” he said.

“But you can’t train a dragon!” 

Clay blurted out, aghast.

The words of the Occulta Draco replayed in his mind: Many are the falconers who have tried to train a dragon with hoods and ropes, as they train their birds.…

Vicente cocked an eye at Clay. 

“Have a lot of experience with dragons, do you?”

Clay paled, realizing his mistake. 

He could hear Brett’s and Leira’s sharp intakes of breath in his ear. 

“No, I just meant, uh, are you sure you can train a dragon the same way you train a falcon? Seems like they might not like it.”

Vicente laughed. 

“Well, listen to him—the world’s first dragon-rights activist!”

“Actually,” said Satya quietly, trying to defuse the tension, “the hoods keep them calm. And the jesses, well, they keep the dragons from flying away.”

Vicente nodded, accepting his daughter’s intervention.

“It’s feeding time, so the hoods come off now anyway,” said Vicente. 

“You can relax.”

Relieved, Clay watched as Vicente inserted a pair of tongs through one of the cages and pulled the hood off the dragon inside. 

Blinking, it hissed and batted the tongs as Vicente removed them.

“We call this guy Houdini,” said Vicente.

“Because it tries to escape?” Clay guessed.

Satya nodded. 

“The other one’s Bodhi, because it’s more mellow.”

She opened a plastic cooler. 

Inside were bright red cubes of steak, bloody and uncooked.

Dr. Paru crossed her arms and nodded at Clay. 

“Would you like to feed it?”

Clay blinked. 

“Um—sure?” 

He picked up a cube of meat and walked toward Houdini’s cage.

The dragon inside was black, or maybe dark blue, with yellow eyes and a mane of fine black spikes like a natural Mohawk. 

It sniffed the air for a second and then flew to the bars, wings flapping against the cage door. 

Clay noticed that one of the wings had torn and was only partly healed.

Houdini’s mouth opened and Clay flinched, expecting the dragon to spit fire. 

To his surprise, it crowed and cawed, but no flames came out. 

Clay took another step toward the cage and then felt a hand on his shoulder.

“I wouldn’t get much closer,” said Vicente. 

“He might be little, but he’s got a mean bite.” 

He motioned that Clay should toss the steak between the bars of the cage.

Leaning away from the flapping dragon, Clay threw the meat inside. 

The dragon snatched it in midair, and made a mess of chowing down. 

Not a very appetizing sight.

“Your dragons eat well,” Mr. Wandsworth observed. 

“Is it always filet mignon for them?”

“No, usually their meals are…” Dr. Paru trailed off.

“Still kicking,” Vicente said with a grin.

As Vicente removed the hood from the head of the dragon they called Bodhi, Satya offered Charles the open cooler of meat. 

“Sir?”

Charles eyed the dragon warily. 

“Should I be worried that it will singe my hair?”

“Actually, the fire-breathing is just a myth,” Dr. Paru said. 

“We think the idea comes from the fact that dragons have a large amount of methane in their breath. If a dragon exhales near an open flame, then, yes, there is fire, but they don’t actually breathe it.”

Vicente snickered. 

“It’s like how you don’t actually fart fire when they put a match to your butt.”

“Funny, I’ve never done that,” Charles said. 

“Is that a habit of yours?”

Vicente looked as though he wanted to slug Charles, but he turned to the dragon instead. 

“I’ll just feed this one myself.”

Clay was confused: He had seen Ariella breathe fire several times, in the volcano and on the cruise ship.

Could there have been an open flame nearby each time—close enough to ignite the dragon’s breath? 

Unlikely, but maybe… He looked at Houdini. 

The dragon’s yellow eyes looked back at him.

“You can hold it now if you like,” said Dr. Paru.

“Uh…”

Clay hesitated. 

The coppery smell of blood was still fresh in the air.

“It’s okay. They’re gentler after they’ve been fed, aren’t they, Vicente?”

He nodded curtly. 

“Satya, give the boy your glove.”

“Sure.” 

Satya handed Clay her big leather falconer’s glove. 

“Don’t worry, Houdini’s super gentle,” she said as he put it on. 

“Like a kitten. Except, you know, for the biting-your-hand-off part.”

Smiling to herself, she stood with Clay next to the cage door and unlocked it. 

“Just hold out your wrist and wait.”

The dragon blinked up as Clay reached into the cage and waited for it to climb on.

“Here, this ought to do the trick,” said Satya, putting a cube of steak on Clay’s glove-covered wrist.

Houdini immediately lunged for the steak, but Clay moved his wrist away fast enough that the dragon had to hop onto his arm in order to eat. 

Clay was surprised by how light the dragon felt, and at the same time how fiercely it dug in its claws. 

He was glad to be wearing the glove.

As the dragon attacked the meat, Clay concentrated on trying to communicate with it. 

“How’s it going, little buddy?” he whispered. 

He didn’t want to give himself away, but he wanted to know whether he was going to be able to talk to the new dragons at the Keep.

The little dragon tilted its head at him but didn’t respond.

Clay tried again. 

“What happened to your wing?”

The dragon opened its mouth, and Clay flinched, but there were no flames, just as Dr. Paru had promised; the dragon was only yawning, something we’re all prone to doing after a good meal.

Disheartened, Clay wondered why he couldn’t reach Houdini the way he could Ariella. 

Then again, this dragon was so young. 

Human babies couldn’t talk until they were—what?—two years old, he reasoned. 

Maybe the same thing was true for dragons.

Carefully, he set the dragon back down in its cage.

“You look pretty comfortable with that thing,” said Satya, who’d been watching over Clay’s shoulder.

“Huh?” Clay asked, shutting the cage door. 

“What do you mean?”

His mind was racing. 

What was wrong with him? 

He kept forgetting where he was.

“Did your daddy buy you a pet dragon when you were little?” Satya asked, taking her glove back from him.

“What? No!” Clay said, a bit too forcefully. 

“This is the first dragon I’ve ever seen, I swear.”

Satya looked at him like he was losing his mind. 

“You realize I was kidding?”

“Oh, right,” said Clay, his face burning.

“I mean, do you know any pet stores that sell baby dragons?”

“Actually, I had a pet Komodo dragon,” Clay said as they started walking out.

“Really?”

“No.” 

Clay smiled to himself. 

“But admit it—I got you, Falcon Girl.”

“Oh boy,” Brett said in his ear. 

“He likes her!”

“Clay!” said Leira. 

“You’re not there to flirt! You’ve got to find Cass!”

Satya tilted her head, just like the little dragon had done. 

“Why are you blushing?” she asked, which only made his cheeks flame more.

Man, thought Clay, I am going to have to think of some seriously epic pranks to pull on those guys when I get back to Earth Ranch.

If I get back to Earth Ranch… Something disturbing had just occurred to him: If the Midnight Sun made their dragons from old dragon DNA, then they had no need for a living dragon. 

No need for Ariella.

He dawdled with Satya as the others gathered around the Land Rovers. 

“Hey, I was just wondering,” he said, as if the idea had just popped into his head. 

“The dragons at the Keep—are they all clones?”

Satya looked at him like he was nuts again. 

“Yeah. How else are you going to make a dragon?”

“Oh, I don’t know. I just thought they might have found some old dragon somewhere.…”

Clay turned away so she couldn’t see his face and then headed quickly toward a waiting Land Rover.

Many thoughts and feelings swirled in Clay’s head, but one thing was clear: Ariella was not at the Keep.

CHAPTER NINE
THE VIEW FROM THE HELICOPTER

As he looked out from the backseat of the Land Rover, Clay’s thoughts twisted and turned along with the road.

He told himself he should be happy that Ariella was free, not a captive of the Midnight Sun.

And part of him was happy. 

Really. 

But a bigger part of him wasn’t. 

Because it meant facing the truth: Ariella could have come back. 

Ariella really had abandoned him.

And then, of course, with Ariella out of the picture, he had no way to get out of the Keep. 

His only hope was Owen. 

If the eruptions on Price Island had subsided, Clay’s “father” would be free to come back to the Keep as expected. 

Then they could escape together, hopefully with Cass in tow. 

But if Owen was still busy evacuating campers… 

Clay nervously touched his ski cap, then removed his finger as if the hat were burning hot. 

Not yet! he told himself. 

He was desperate to contact his friends at Earth Ranch, but he couldn’t risk speaking to them in front of the others. 

He would have to wait until he was alone.

Clay noticed that Gyorg, who was driving Ms. Mauvais and the Wandsworths in the vehicle ahead, had turned back in the direction of the castle; Vicente, who was driving Clay, Satya, and Charles, seemed to be going in another direction altogether.

“Why aren’t we going back with them?” he asked Satya, who had become noticeably nicer since she saw Clay interact with the little dragon.

She looked back at him. 

“Don’t tell me you’ve got a fear of heights, too?”

Clay shook his head nervously, uncertain what she meant. 

In fact, he did have a slight fear of heights (it was a family trait), not that he would have dreamed of admitting it.

Soon they pulled into another clearing, where he saw two cement circles dotted with lights and bright markings. 

On top of one sat a black helicopter. 

Clay stared anxiously at the massive weapons attached to the helicopter’s sides. 

Were they there to subdue dragons or to eradicate enemy spies? 

Either way, he didn’t like it.

A moment later, he was being strapped into a black leather seat.

Clay’s stomach did somersaults as the helicopter lurched into the air, swaying with the wind as it gained altitude. 

But among his many skills, Vicente was a crack pilot, and they quickly cleared the jungle canopy.

Soon Clay was pressing his nose against the glass to take in the view of the crater.

In one direction he could make out the castle and the tents and some sort of farm or barnyard full of livestock in the distance. 

In the other direction was the laboratory complex. 

Beyond the laboratory, standing alone, was a structure that looked something like a lifeguard station, or a guard tower in a prison yard, only much taller.

Could that tower be Cass’s prison? 

It was definitely isolated enough. 

He would have to investigate later.

All other thoughts were washed away when Vicente took a sharp right turn and the glistening hourglass-shaped lake came into view directly beneath them. 

The lake was surrounded on all sides by a ring of boulders that looked like a necklace of giant misshapen teeth.

“Okay, keep your eyes open now,” said Vicente.

He dropped the helicopter just low enough that the surface of the lake started to ripple. 

But it wasn’t the lake that caused Clay to hold his breath; it was the two shadows passing over it.

One was unmistakably a helicopter—their helicopter.

The other could have been an airplane, except that the wings were flapping and the tail was swinging. 

From the angle of the sun, it appeared to be right above them. 

Clay craned his neck but didn’t see anything.

Until suddenly—The dark, scaly underside of a dragon passed over the helicopter’s cockpit. 

Then, with a swing of its tail, which came within inches of the windshield, the dragon dove to the lake.

As his passengers gasped, Vicente snickered. “Oh, Bluebeard’s just trying to give us a scare. Doesn’t like visitors. That dragon knows he can’t hurt us or he gets this—” Vicente held up what looked like a television remote control. 

“See that steel collar Bluebeard’s wearing? If I don’t like something the dragon’s doing, I just press this button. Gives a ten-thousand-watt jolt to the neck.”

Clay shuddered. 

The collar wasn’t so surprising, perhaps, but it went against everything he knew and believed about the majesty of dragons.

Bluebeard skimmed the lake’s surface with a claw, then landed on a broad boulder. 

The blue-black dragon’s jagged jowls did look somewhat like a pirate’s beard, Clay thought.

“Bluebeard’s a wily one, though,” said Vicente. 

“The smartest and meanest of the bunch.”

Not far from Bluebeard, sunning themselves on the rocks like the pet Komodo dragon Clay had never actually had, were two other very different but equally magnificent and equally terrifying creatures. 

Like Bluebeard, they wore gleaming steel collars around their necks. 

“Hard to believe that just a few months ago they were stuck in those little cages, being fed cubes of steak, eh?” said Vicente.

It did stretch the imagination, Clay had to admit. 

It was hard to tell at this distance, but Clay thought that at least one of the dragons might be bigger than Ariella.

“The biggest one, that’s Rover,” Vicente said. 

“Rover’s the dumbest—and clumsiest. That dragon’ll kill you even if he’s not trying to. Stay clear.”

If Bluebeard was a velociraptor, Rover was a T. rex. 

Big and gray and ready to topple a mountain.

As they watched, Rover rose up on huge hind legs and then belly flopped into the lake below, making a splash the size of a tidal wave.

“And down at the south end of the lake, sleeping as usual, that one is Snowflake.”

Clay was about to ask about the name, when the smaller, bright green dragon turned its head. 

Right above its snout was a white snowflake-like spot.

“Don’t be fooled by how relaxed they look,” Vicente said. 

“I chose this time on purpose because the sun is high and it makes them lazy.”

As he spoke, Snowflake batted something away from its eyes, rolled onto its back, stretched, then went back to sleep.

“These dragons may be born in a lab, but they’re wild animals all the same,” said Vicente. 

“They’re mean and unpredictable, and they’ll pounce on you in a second if you’re not careful.”

“Perhaps they are so wild because they have no adult dragons around to model proper dragon behavior,” Charles suggested mildly.

Vicente looked over his shoulder. 

“Don’t worry. They know who’s boss.” 

He pointed to himself.

“You believe yourself to be the alpha, do you?” Charles said.

“I know I’m the alpha,” Vicente corrected.

“That’s part of it. You have to be one hundred percent confident.”

“But how can you be so sure dragons have alphas?” Charles persisted. 

“In legend, dragons are a rather independent species.”

“They are independent,” Clay said.

“Very.”

Charles, Satya, and Vicente all turned to look at him. 

Clay felt the blood rushing to his head; he’d done it again.

Vicente raised an eyebrow. 

“And how would you know that, kid? From The Hobbit?”

“Don’t tease him, Dad,” said Satya. 

“You’ve never even read The Hobbit.”

“Touché,” said Charles, amused.

“The point is, there are alphas in every species,” Vicente said, glaring at his daughter. 

“Ours included.”

Clay decided it was best to change the subject. 

“What are those poles?” he asked, pointing to a line of white poles stuck into the ground. 

There was a blinking light at the top of each one.

“They mark the perimeter of the dome,” said Vicente.

He explained that around and above the dragons’ habitat, there was an invisible perimeter—a “dome”—made of electric currents. 

The dome signaled the collars to shock the dragons whenever they got too close.

“So this dome, if it were to be turned off… the dragons could fly anywhere they liked?” 

Charles peered at the sky around them as if he thought the dome itself might be visible.

“And attack anyone they like, that’s right,” said Vicente. 

“Especially since the dome is connected to this.” 

He held up his remote again. 

“If the dome turns off, the collars turn off.”

“Sounds like we might want to keep the dome on, then,” said Charles with obvious understatement.

Unless you wanted to fly away on the back of a dragon, thought Clay. 

In that case, you’d have to turn off the dome beforehand. 

Of course, you’d have to convince the dragon to let you climb onto its back first. 

And that would likely be much harder.

The helicopter did a slow figure eight, looping back around the dragons, then gradually descended, getting even closer to the sunbathing beasts. 

By now two of the dragons—Bluebeard and Rover—had raised their heads to look at the helicopter through squinty eyes. 

Snowflake was still lying on the rock, like an overgrown cat lazing in the sun.

Clay watched with anxious awe. 

Was this his new plan B, to fly out of the Keep on the back of one of these dragons? 

Or rather his plan C. 

Owen coming back was his plan B. 

(Ariella had been plan A.) 

Still, it couldn’t hurt to think of options. 

He might very well need to leave before Owen could come get him.

Would he be able to befriend one of the Keep’s dragons—ally with one of them, as the Occulta Draco put it? 

He hadn’t been able to communicate with the baby dragons in the nursery, but these dragons were fully grown, or close to it; hopefully, their language skills were more advanced.

He stared out the window, trying to discern whether the dragons were communicating with one another.

As the helicopter drew closer, he started sensing something coming from them. 

Not words or thoughts. 

It was more of a feeling than anything else.

A strong feeling.

It was rage.

Suddenly, Bluebeard reared back and spread a pair of enormous blue-black wings. 

Clay flinched.

Roarrrrrrrrr!

Vicente pulled up sharply but then hovered not too far away.

The dragon stared at them, looking as though it wanted to rip the helicopter to shreds.

“Isn’t it time to push that button of yours?” asked Charles.

“Or maybe just fly away,” said Clay.

Vicente laughed.  

“Don’t worry. He can’t reach us before getting zapped.”

“Maybe not,” Clay argued. 

“But his breath can! Look at him—in a second he’s gonna turn this chopper to toast!”

Shaking his head, Vicente turned around to look at Clay.

“Like Dr. Paru said, dragons don’t really breathe fire.…”

Suddenly, Bluebeard jumped into the air. 

Then the dragon reared its head back in a way that was all too familiar to Clay. 

Clay braced himself, waiting to get lit up like a torch.

But when the dragon opened its mouth, exposing rows of sharp, gleaming teeth, no fire came out—not even a spark. 

Only a very loud and very frightening ROARRRRRRRRR!

At the same time, Vicente pressed down on his remote.  

Bluebeard made a sound of strangled fury, then dropped back to the rock below.

“What did I tell you?” Vicente grinned as if to say, See, I’m the alpha.

Clay nodded, his heart racing. 

This was the second dragon that hadn’t breathed fire when he thought it was going to. 

Maybe Ariella was an exception?

Or maybe there really had been an open flame nearby every time he saw fire come out of Ariella’s mouth.

Maybe he just didn’t know as much about dragons as he thought he did.

CHAPTER TEN
THE TERRORS OF DINNER

When he reached his tent, Clay made three complete turns, checking that nobody was nearby. 

(And perhaps it’s just as well nobody was; he looked pretty silly spinning around like that.) 

Satisfied, he pushed open the flap door and ducked inside.

“Guys, are you there?” Clay tapped the side of his ski hat. 

“I’ve kind of got a situation here.”

“Yeah, we’re here,” said Leira. 

It was unnerving to hear her voice in his ear even when he expected it. 

“You’ve got a situation? You shoulda heard Mr. B chew me out when I told him you were staying. It was like we were leaving you alone with dragons or something.”

“Very funny.”

“Seriously. He was raging. In his mind, it’s all my fault. You know, the whole shoot-the-messenger thing? Of course, I blamed it on you and Owen.…”

“Can we worry about Mr. B later?”

All in a rush, he told her that Ariella wasn’t at the Keep and that he was hoping Owen would be able to come back soon.

“Yeesh…” said Leira, aghast. 

“Owen isn’t even back here yet; it’s a long flight, remember? Plus, the lava is still headed right for us. Everyone’s counting on Owen to get us out. Or else we’re all going to be inflating life rafts.”

“So basically I’m on my own.…”

“What about the other dragons? Can’t you fly out on one of them?”

“Yeah, maybe,” said Clay. Or maybe not. 

“Did you get the Occulta Draco back from Flint?”

“No. Sorry. He swears he doesn’t have it.”

“You searched all his stuff?”

“Of course I did!” said Leira, offended. 

“Am I not the best cabin raider at Earth Ranch?”

“Okay, well, thanks for trying,” said Clay, forcing himself to keep going and not collapse in despair. 

“Ms. Mauvais told me not to be late for dinner. She says they’re very Old World here.  Whatever that means.”

“Dinner? What about looking for Cass?”

“I know. But if I don’t show up, they’ll start looking for me.…”

It was the sort of room that would have been intimidating even if it weren’t inhabited by ancient bloodthirsty alchemists.

As Clay entered, he faced a glass wall with a view of the jungle outside and the lake in the distance. 

The other walls, as well as the floor and ceiling, were covered in mirrored tile, so they reflected each other in an infinite regression, giving Clay the vertiginous sense that he was falling through space.

But it was the long, elaborately carved dining table that was most striking. 

It looked much like a table you might see in an old movie, with a king and queen sitting at opposite ends—with one exception. 

Instead of wood, the table was made entirely of glass, legs and all. 

Likewise, the tall dining chairs had an ornate baronial aspect, but they too were all glass.

Glittering crystal candelabras and giant glass goblets completed the effect. 

It was as though some fairy-tale snow queen had waved her wand and turned the dining room to ice. 

Even the expressions on the faces of the guests appeared frozen.

Clay had a feeling the whole room might shatter at any moment, diners included.

“Austin, darling, how… you you are,” said Ms. Mauvais, glancing at the ski hat still on his head. 

She was wearing a shimmering silver evening gown, in which Clay could see tiny pieces of himself reflected. 

“Come, sit right next to me.”

A waiter pulled out his chair for him, but Clay didn’t notice and he almost fell as he sat down. 

“Oh, sorry!” he said.

Mortified, he tried to take stock of the situation. 

He had planned to eat quickly, then excuse himself and go hunt for Cass, but in this intimate environment, peeling himself away was going to be tough. 

Maybe impossible.

Ms. Mauvais pinged her goblet with a spoon to get everyone’s attention.

“You are about to have a medieval feast,” she informed her guests. 

“Every dish served is exactly like a dish you might have found on a castle table in the Middle Ages. But we have modified the presentation, and the size of the portions, to suit modern tastes.”

“Of course, we must make everything modern these days,” complained Mrs. Wandsworth.

Charles smiled thinly. 

“Even dragons.”

“We call our cuisine nouveau moyen-âge,” said Ms.  Mauvais, studiously ignoring them.

Brett, who evidently had been listening, translated in Clay’s ear. 

“That means new Middle Ages, which is a paradox, or maybe an oxymoron.”

Clay stared at his place setting. 

Lined up on either side of his plate were approximately fifty forks. 

Well, at least ten. 

Pretending he was scratching his temple, he discreetly pressed the side of his ski hat.

“What?” Brett asked. 

“You want to know the difference between a paradox and an oxymoron?”

Not for the first time, Brett reminded Clay strongly of Max-Ernest. 

He pressed the side of his hat again.

“Wait, you’re at dinner, right? Is it… is it the forks?”

Clay coughed meaningfully.

“Well, this will teach you to pay attention next time, won’t it?” Brett chastised, before reminding Clay to start from the outside in.

“A toast,” said Charles, standing. 

“To the dragons and their queen.” 

He raised his glass toward Ms. Mauvais. 

She acknowledged him with a slight nod.

Mr. Wandsworth shouted, “Hear! Hear!” and they all clinked goblets.

“What is this, anyway?” asked Clay, looking at the amber liquid in his goblet. 

He liked it.

“Mead,” said Mr. Wandsworth. 

“Beer made from honey.”

“I wouldn’t drink too much of it,” said his wife. 

“We’ve got that bridge game.”

“Don’t be silly. Clay’s is nonalcoholic,” said Amber. 

“Drink as much as you want, sweetie.”

Clay took a big gulp, then laughed, mead dribbling down his chin to his lap. 

“Oops.”

Ms. Mauvais gave him a chilly look, and Clay immediately sobered up. 

This was not the time to relax.

The meal was possibly the best, definitely the fanciest, and by far the most frustrating Clay had ever eaten. 

It was true about the portion sizes; the bits and pieces on his plate were nothing like the giant mutton legs and huge apple-biting roast pigs one imagined at a medieval feast. 

It was as if they were being served sniffs and glimpses rather than actual food. 

Not that anybody else seemed to mind. 

Maybe after a certain age—a hundred years, say—one no longer needed to eat.

Clay did his best to fill up on honey cakes, the one thing in generous supply.

“You seem to have built up quite an appetite,” said Charles, catching Clay’s eye. 

“Must be all the excitement from seeing a dragon… for the first time.”

Clay nodded slowly. 

Something about the way Charles said for the first time seemed a little odd. 

Had he overheard Clay’s conversation with Satya?

“Uh, well, yeah… this food is basically the best I’ve ever had,” he stammered.

“Stop that!” Brett hissed in his ear. 

“Blasé, remember?”

“Well, maybe not the best,” Clay corrected hastily. 

“The food was better in Gistopp.”

“No…! ” Brett groaned.

“Gistopp?” Charles repeated, confused. 

“Oh! You mean Gstaad.” 

He smiled. 

“So then, you’re fond of fondue, I take it?”

Clay paused, listening to Brett in his ear. 

“Actually, uh, I prefer raclette.”

Charles nodded judiciously.

“Bien sûr. Moi aussi.”

Avoiding the eyes of his fellow guests, Clay looked through the big window across from him. 

Above the lake, two of the dragons—Bluebeard and Rover, Clay thought, though he couldn’t be sure—could now be seen silhouetted in the twilit sky. 

From here they looked no bigger than dragonflies, and yet there was something about the way they circled that made their fury and frustration obvious. 

How would he ever be able to approach them?

Clay turned to see Gyorg entering the room. 

Unceremoniously, Ms. Mauvais’s muscle-bound henchman marched up to his mistress and whispered in her ear. 

Clay strained to listen as he sipped his mead.

Gyorg had a thick Slavic accent, and Clay could make out only two words, escape and tower, but they were enough to make him sit up straight. 

Gyorg must be talking about Cass! 

And maybe about the tower he’d seen from the helicopter! 

Had she escaped from the tower, or merely tried to?

Clay watched Ms. Mauvais’s face for clues, but she was as unreadable as ever.

“Very well, Gyorg,” replied Ms. Mauvais icily. 

“But next time, a little more discretion, please. We are in the middle of dinner.”

Gyorg nodded curtly and marched out.

Ms. Mauvais stood, leaving her napkin carefully folded next to her untouched food. 

“I am terribly sorry, but I must cut our meal short.”

Immediately, the attendants began removing plates and clearing the table. 

While Mr. Wandsworth helped his wife out of her seat, Clay grabbed a honey cake off the table and then started inching out of the room, hoping to get away without drawing attention to himself.

Before he was fully out the door, Mr. Wandsworth called to him: “We’ll see you in the Ryū Room in five minutes for our game.”

Clay clutched his stomach dramatically. 

“Actually, I’m… all that food… I think I’m going to be sick.…”

Without waiting for a response, he hurried down the stairs and out of the castle.

Clay didn’t stop until he was most of the way down the open-air hallway, near the path to his tent. 

He took a bite of his honey cake, thinking about the guard tower. 

Where was it in relation to the castle? 

Could he get there on foot? 

What would he say if he were caught on the way?

He needed to talk it over with his friends. 

“Leira?” he whispered, crumbs falling from his mouth. 

“Brett? Whose shift is it?”

“Who are you talking to?”

Clay whirled around and clamped his mouth shut. 

Satya was leaning against a column, Hero sitting patiently on her shoulder.

“Oh…” Clay fought the blush creeping up his neck. 

“Uh, just myself. It’s this weird habit I have.”

“Like wearing ski hats in the desert?”

Clay silently cursed Brett again “Sorry, that was mean,” said Satya.

She pushed herself off the column and walked toward him.

Hero’s head was cocked like she was listening closely to their conversation.

“You’re not like the rest of them, are you?” Satya asked. 

“You’re not wearing gloves, and you eat.”

“How do you know I eat?”

She pointed to the half-eaten cake in his hand.

“Oh, right. Duh.” Clay laughed, embarrassed.

“And…”

She pointed to the stains on his shirt.

This was getting worse and worse. 

If only he could tell her the truth, at least he would be able to explain the ski hat. 

Could he trust her?

“Oh, um, well…”

Clay was saved from having to form a full sentence by a figure emerging from the darkness. 

The moonlight revealed Vicente, still wearing safari fatigues. 

He looked from his daughter to Clay, and his scowl—already quite impressive—grew somehow even more menacing.

“Satya,” Vicente said, his eyes not leaving Clay’s face, “don’t you have chores to do?”

Satya scowled right back at her father, and suddenly Clay could very clearly see the resemblance.

“If you say so,” she muttered after a moment. 

She looked like she had a hundred more questions she wanted to ask Clay, but she turned and walked away nonetheless.

That left just Clay and Vicente.

“Well,” Clay said. 

“I guess I’ll be off.…”

He backed up and headed away in the direction of his tent. He would have to get out of Vicente’s line of vision before he went anywhere else.

“Austin,” Vicente called after him.

Clay paused and turned around.

Was Vicente going to warn him off his daughter? 

All he’d done was have a conversation with her. 

Talk about overprotective.

“Be careful out there,” Vicente said.

“I thought you said we were safe from the dragons?”

Vicente shook his head. 

“I’m not talking about the dragons.”

With that, the man melted back into the shadows just as quickly as he’d appeared.

CHAPTER ELEVEN
THE ENCOUNTER BELOW THE TOWER

Now that Clay was no longer playing tourist and was officially sneaking around, Leira and Brett were eager to help with “tactical ops,” as they called it.

First goal: the guard tower. 

If Cass was still imprisoned there, he would free her. 

If she’d already escaped, Leira and Brett said they would help him “pick up the scent of her trail.” 

Clay was skeptical—if Cass was hiding from the Midnight Sun, how was he supposed to find her?—but he didn’t say so aloud.

Clay told his friends that the tower was out past the lab building, at least a half mile deeper into the crater.

“Why don’t you just steal one of the Land Rovers,” Leira suggested. 

“I can talk you through hot-wiring it.…”

“Terrible idea!” said Brett. 

“There’s a big difference between him being caught snooping around on foot and him being caught stealing a car.”

“I thought he was supposed to be a rebel,” Leira protested.

“A rebel, yeah. Not a thief!”

“Anyway, there’s no point,” said Clay. 

“I don’t know how to drive.”

“You don’t?” Leira sounded shocked.

“I’m not even fourteen for another week!”

“So? I learned when I was nine.” Brett snorted. 

“Yeah, and look where that got you.”

As Brett and Leira squabbled in his ear, Clay began jogging down the road to the laboratory—or at least what he thought was the road to the laboratory. 

Luckily, the moon was bright, and he had little trouble seeing, even if he wasn’t exactly certain where he was going.

After about five minutes, he reached the bridge that he remembered crossing; now he was definitely going the right way. 

As he mentally congratulated himself, he heard a strange whirring noise.

“What was that?” asked Leira.

“I don’t know—shh!” Clay whispered.

Then he spotted a figure buzzing toward him from around the bend. 

It was one of the park security guards on some sort of motorized three-wheeled standing scooter.

With no time to second-guess himself, Clay dove into a nearby shrub, scratching himself badly. 

He hoped the scratch wouldn’t raise questions later.

The guard wheeled down the road slowly, giving everything around Clay a long, hard look. 

He must have heard something when Clay launched himself into the landscaping. 

Admittedly, it hadn’t been the smoothest hideaway strategy.

But after looking closely at the shrubs, the guard sniffed and leaned forward, spinning on.

Clay waited until all he could hear was the buzzing of insects before stepping back onto the road.

“Well? What was it?” asked Leira.

Whispering, Clay told his friends what had happened.

“Nice work,” said Leira approvingly.

“It isn’t a proper operation until you’ve hidden in the bushes and gotten scratched ’til you bleed.”

“Sure, but you’d better hope the Midnight Sun didn’t plant any poison ivy,” said Brett.

Not bothering to respond, Clay headed across the bridge.

Eventually, he reached the guard tower. 

At the top, sitting on its tall, rickety scaffolding, was a square structure that looked like a little house, with windows on all sides. 

Light flickered in the windows, as if there were a television playing behind them. 

Below, attached to the scaffolding, was the kind of huge round spotlight you might expect to see in a prison yard; it was dark now, but when it was lit, it must have been bright enough to be seen for miles. 

A narrow and very perilous-looking ladder led from the ground to the top of the tower. 

Clay looked around, wondering how likely it was that he would be seen climbing up. 

On the one hand, the tower was visible from all directions; on the other hand, it was fairly dark out, and the ladder was partly obscured by the scaffolding. 

Most of the time, he would be in shadow. 

He decided to chance it.

The ladder clanged and vibrated as he climbed, causing him to keep looking over his shoulder to make sure that no alarms had been sounded. 

He didn’t see anyone, but the surrounding jungle seemed to move and shift in the darkness.

At the top of the ladder was a hatch door. 

There was no lock that he could see, but he hesitated before opening it.

He pressed the side of his ski hat. 

“What if there’s someone inside—I mean, besides Cass?” he whispered. 

“What’s my alibi? Why am I here?”

“Curiosity,” said Brett. 

“Simple as that. Remember, you’re used to owning the world. Why shouldn’t you check out the tower? You’re a paying guest.”

Cautiously, Clay pushed open the door—Then pulled himself up into the tower room. 

Nobody was there. 

Cass must have escaped.

No, actually, she’d never been there. 

And I’m an idiot, he thought, shoulders slumped.

It had been silly to think Cass might be inside; he had obviously misunderstood the message that Gyorg whispered to Ms. Mauvais. 

Far from having the walls of a prison cell, the room had a 360-degree view of the crater around it. 

The interior was filled with computer screens and surveillance monitors and various other blinking and beeping machines.

“Well…? ” asked Leira, startling him.

“It’s some sort of control tower.” 

Clay sighed. 

“Definitely not a place where you’d keep a hostage.”

The largest screen showed what appeared to be a digital relief map of the crater. 

A thin red circle in the center pulsed with light. 

Within the circle, three flashing orange lights were moving erratically.

Clay squinted to look more closely. 

“I think this is where they monitor the dragons and the dome—that’s the electric force field that keeps them from flying away and terrorizing the world.”

As he examined the confusing array of technology around him, Clay was suddenly aware of a terrible sound: ROOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAWRRRRRRRRRR!

His heart racing, Clay dropped to his knees so he wouldn’t be seen. 

Then he peeked out a window.

About twenty yards away from the tower, Snowflake was crouched on the ground. 

The dragon’s big yellow eyes were staring straight ahead, its bristly tail swinging back and forth, like a cat stalking a bird.

Still trying to stay out of sight, Clay cracked open a window so he could better hear what was happening.

“Mr.  Schrödinger, no!”

A safe distance away, right behind the perimeter marked by the blinking dome posts, Ms. Mauvais was beckoning to a scraggly old man who was standing directly in front of the dragon. 

He wore a straw cowboy hat and had a big, drooping handlebar mustache.

“Be reasonable and back away from the dragon right now,” said Ms. Mauvais, her voice calm but strained.

Gyorg stood beside her, shaking his head solemnly. 

“Mr. Schrödinger, you listen to the lady!”

Ignoring them, the man they called Schrödinger stepped closer to Snowflake. 

In one hand he was holding an apple; in the other, a riding crop. 

He looked ready to break a pony.

“Here you go, Snowflake. There’s a good girl,” said Schrödinger. 

His voice was warbly and uneven, and he had a raspy Old West sort of twang. 

“Old Schrödy’s got an apple for you! We’re going to go on a little trippy-wippy.”

He tossed the apple at the dragon, which was something like tossing a raisin at a horse. 

Uninterested, Snowflake let the apple fall on the ground. 

The dragon’s tail continued to twitch back and forth.

Clay watched in horror. 

Any moment now, Snowflake was surely going to pounce, and the old man was going to be chewed up or ripped to shreds.

“I know you can’t wait to get on that dragon again, Mr. Schrödinger,” said Ms. Mauvais. 

“You want to go back—we understand that—but the conditions aren’t right at the moment. We are conducting controlled experiments.”

Clay scrunched his face in confusion. 

It sounded as if this guy had ridden the dragon before. 

Where did he want to go back to?

“But don’t you see? I never left,” Schrödinger shouted back nonsensically. 

“I’m still there—I’m not here at all!”

“Have patience, dear. Soon you’ll be yourself again, I promise. And when we get you back there, you’ll be better than that. You’ll be a young man.”

Young man? 

What did that mean? 

He looked plenty old to Clay.

“You don’t know what you’re talking about,” yelled Schrödinger. 

“And you can’t stop me!”

Gyorg leaned into Ms. Mauvais. 

“Madame, let me go inside and grab him—”

“No, let him be,” she said wearily. 

“No sense in your dying, too. If he wants to feed himself to a dragon, that’s his affair. We can always find another test subject.”

She took a last look at Schrödinger and turned as if about to leave.

Then a Land Rover screeched to a stop in front of Ms. Mauvais, and Vicente sprang out.

Spurred to action, Schrödinger yelled, “Yeeeeehawwww!” and started running toward the dragon, clearly intending to leap right onto its back, although there was little chance he could actually jump that high. 

Clay held his breath, ready for the worst.

But just before Schrödinger could reach Snowflake, Vicente sprinted toward him and grabbed him around the waist.

“All right, ya rodeo clown,” Vicente said, dragging the old man outside the dome perimeter. 

“That’s enough action for you for tonight.” 

He gave Ms. Mauvais a sharp look. 

“I told you it was too soon to put anybody on a dragon’s back. Those were just supposed to be speed trials. Not a round-trip ticket to… wherever the heck it is you’re trying to get to.”

“Thank you for your help, Vicente, but please keep your opinions to yourself,” said Ms. Mauvais.

“You may drive me back to the castle now. Gyorg will make sure that Mr. Schrödinger is settled in his quarters—and that he stays there.”

Vicente nodded and released Schrödinger.

The old man lunged toward the dragon, but Gyorg grasped him firmly by the shoulders and lifted him off the ground as if he weighed no more than a child.

“How dare you!” shouted Schrödinger. 

“Unhand me, sir!”

Clay descended ten minutes later, the scene he had witnessed still replaying in his mind.

“This old dude, Show-ringer—you think he really flew on that dragon’s back?” Clay whispered.

“How should we know?” said Leira. 

“But come to think of it, wouldn’t this be a good time to try to make friends with the dragon—what’s his name, Snowball?”

“Snowflake. And you don’t make friends; you make an alliance. But, yeah, I guess I could try.”

As terrifying as the idea was.

By the time he got to the bottom of the tower, however, Snowflake was no longer in the clearing. 

Clay stepped up to the dome line and peered into the darkness, wondering whether he should look behind the trees for the dragon, but he decided against it. 

Running into Snowflake was one thing; running into Bluebeard was another.

Feeling as though he was disappointing Brett and Leira, he headed back down the road. 

I’d like to see you guys walk into that jungle, he thought. 

Funny how even when his friends weren’t providing running commentary, he still felt like they were inside his head.

What next? 

Cass could be anywhere, he thought glumly. 

He’d been so excited when he thought he overheard Gyorg saying she was in the tower. 

Now he had no idea what to do or where to go.

When he got near the tents, he heard more outraged shouting.

“Inside-outside-you-side-me-side! Don’t tell me to stay inside! There are no sides here!”

Schrödinger. 

The man’s raving made even less sense now. 

He sounded insane.

As Clay listened, somebody coughed. 

He wheeled around and saw Gyorg walking up the path from the castle.

“Why you are still outside?” said Gyorg sharply.

“Sorry, just, uh, getting some air.” 

Then, remembering he was supposed to be cocky, not defensive, he added, “Is that a crime?”

Gyorg said nothing.

“Hey, what’s with that guy shouting back there? Who is he?” 

Clay figured it was a normal question to ask under the circumstances.

Gyorg looked at him as if debating whether to answer. 

“He is first guest at Keep,” Gyorg said finally.

He stared, unmoving, until Clay said an awkward “good night” and headed for his tent. 

Further investigation would have to wait.

CHAPTER TWELVE
THE DISCOVERY IN THE BARNYARD

Clay’s eyes blinked open.

Heart racing, he lay stiff in bed, not daring to move.

It had been a roar that awakened him. 

A loud, angry roar. 

A much-too-close-sounding roar.

He waited for a monstrous silhouette to appear on the walls of his tent. 

Or for a long sharp talon to tear into the canvas. 

Or for a burst of fire to burn the whole thing down.

(Sure, Dr. Paru had said the fire-breathing was a myth, but he still wasn’t entirely convinced.…)

The minutes ticked by. 

And… nothing.

Perhaps the dragon had been farther away than Clay thought. 

Or perhaps he had dreamed the roar.

Some Dragon Tamer he was, shaking in his bed, afraid of shadows.

Clay shook his head in dismay. 

He had been crazy to come here alone. 

Crazy to think he would be able to save Cass. 

Crazy to think he would be able to fly away on a dragon. 

He was no better than that kooky old cowboy, Schrödinger. 

He was stark raving mad.

With a shiver, he remembered how Ms. Mauvais had been ready to leave Schrödinger to die. 

And Schrödinger wasn’t even a spy. 

He, Clay, would be lucky to get out alive.

Clay had intended to get up at dawn to search for Cass, but the sun was high in the sky by the time he exited his tent and headed to the castle.

He would have to find an excuse to slip away later. 

Then again, he thought bleakly, what was the point of finding her when he had no idea how they were going to get out?

Breakfast, he was relieved to discover, was a more casual affair than dinner. 

There was a buffet on the patio behind the castle, and he gladly filled his plate with waffles and eggs and bacon and sausages and then more waffles and a pancake for good measure.

“Feeling better this morning, I see,” said Mr. Wandsworth, looking at the pile on Clay’s plate. 

“Too bad you didn’t recover in time to play bridge last night. Maybe this afternoon?”

“Don’t badger the boy, Reginald. He obviously doesn’t want to play with us,” sniffed Mrs. Wandsworth. 

“No doubt he prefers video games or some such.”

“Yeah, that’s right,” said Clay, forcing a smile. 

“Er, sorry.”

He grabbed a table by himself, then tapped the side of his hat. 

“Leira? Brett?” he whispered, covering his mouth. 

“You there?”

“Yeah, and guess what—camp is safe! Everybody got together and built this crazy-big dam. And with a little bending of the no-magic rule, we diverted all the lava to the ocean.”

“Hey, that’s great!” 

Clay felt himself relax a bit. 

“So Owen can come back here, then?”

“Well, that’s the thing.” Leira’s tone changed. 

“We kinda sorta forgot to tell Owen about the lava situation, so he just, um, landed in the water where he always does.… And he’s totally fine… but the lava sort of hardened around the plane? They’re trying to salvage it, but it might be a while.…”

“Oof.” Clay’s relief evaporated.

“I know, it’s a serious bummer,” said Leira. 

“How’d it go with Snowball? Any chance that dragon could be your ticket out of there?”

Before Clay could respond, there was a loud squawk.

Satya had stepped up behind him. 

Hero, sitting on Satya’s shoulder, studiously ignored Clay, as if she had not just squawked in his ear.

“Talking to yourself again?” said Satya. 

“It really is a thing for you, huh?”

Quickly, Clay pulled off his ski hat. 

No doubt he had terrible hat head, but he couldn’t worry about that now. 

“Why not. I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but I’m really great company.”

“Can’t say that I’ve noticed that, no,” Satya said.

Clay didn’t want to stare, but he was pretty sure she was trying not to smile.

“You should see me around llamas—they love talking to me,” said Clay, as if he were joking (although, as you know, it was the truth).

“Riiight.” Satya laughed. 

“Actually, we do have some llamas here.”

“You do?”

“Yeah. A lot.”

“Why?”

Satya made a face. 

It was too gross to say aloud.

“You mean, they’re… dragon food?” said Clay, his mouth suddenly dry.

“Kind of horrible, huh? But it’s the circle of life, I guess. The lions eat the antelopes, and the antelopes eat the grass or whatever.”

Clay thought guiltily of Como. 

If he ever saw that llama again, Clay owed him an apology.

“Seriously, the llamas don’t have such a bad life—I mean, until… Anyway, I can take you to see them if you want.” 

Satya smiled mischievously. 

“So you can talk to them.”

Clay paled, then realized she was referencing his joke. 

“Ha-ha.”

“No, really, you want to go?”

Clay hesitated. 

It would be awful to see the llamas, knowing what their fate was going to be. 

On the other hand, he wasn’t helping them by pretending they didn’t exist. 

If he went, at least he might learn a little more about the dragons. 

And he was going to have to know a whole lot more about the dragons if one of them was going to be his ride out of there.

“I’m not gonna force you—”

“No, no, I want to,” said Clay hastily.

“Okay, but we’d better ask her first,” said Satya, indicating Ms. Mauvais, who was standing some distance away, in conversation with Charles. 

“I don’t want to make her mad. Well, I do, but I don’t. If you know what I mean.”

Happily, Ms. Mauvais thought a tour of the barn was a great idea.

Unhappily, she thought the idea was so great that she insisted everyone go. 

Everyone but her. 

She didn’t want to get her clothes dirty. 

Amber would lead the group in her place. 

“Gyorg will give you his keys,” Ms. Mauvais told her.

And just like that, Clay’s hopes of a solo trip with Satya were dashed.

With Ms. Mauvais absent, Satya felt comfortable bringing Hero along. 

When Clay got into the Land Rover, his ski hat now firmly back on his head, he found Satya sitting next to her dad, with the bird on her shoulder.

Hero leaned around the seat and stared right at Clay. 

I will peck your eyes out, she seemed to be saying, if you come a single inch closer.

They drove off in the opposite direction from the laboratory, and Clay tried to keep track of their twists and turns on the map he was building in his mind. 

And tried not to think of how itchy his scalp felt under the hat.

Vicente pulled over in front of a tall wire-mesh fence that ran the length of a large barnyard—the very one Clay had seen from the chopper the day before. 

No doubt the fence was sturdy enough to keep animals inside, but Clay couldn’t help thinking it would be of little use keeping out certain predatory beasts. 

If for some reason a dragon couldn’t fly over the fence, the dragon could slash right through it.

As Clay walked through the gate, he thought again of Como. 

There were at least two dozen llamas, a few that Clay would have trouble telling apart from his llama friend back at Earth Ranch. 

They lazily chewed grass and rolled in the dirt, seemingly unaware of the dragons that lurked not so far away. 

The llamas shared space with a handful of other animals, including one pig, two goats, and nine or ten chickens that scuttled between the llamas’ legs, pecking at the ground.

“They tried other animals—goats and sheep and whatnot—but the dragons liked the llamas best,” Satya explained matter-of-factly.

She pointed to an adjacent, smaller barnyard in which several flightless birds could be seen standing around. 

“Emus. For the eggs.”

Past the barnyard and the enormous barn were three tall gray cylindrical structures—storage silos. 

The silos formed a semicircle and looked a little foreboding and fortress-like. 

At the bottom of each was a pair of double doors, closed with heavy chains. 

Clay stared at the silos. 

The more he looked at them, the more they resembled prison towers.

“What’s inside those things?” he asked Satya as casually as he could.

“Those silos? Feed for the animals, mostly. You know, grain and hay and stuff… Oh, no you don’t—” 

Satya put a hand on Hero, who was looking very purposefully at a nearby chicken. 

“Not now…”

As Satya tried to keep Hero from making a meal out of the chicken, Clay slipped away from her and sidled up next to a pair of llamas that were grazing on their own, near the barnyard’s back gate.

“Hola. ¿Cómo estás?” said Clay in Spanish because that was what he was used to speaking with Como.

The llamas looked blankly at him. 

But one cocked its head, as though trying to figure out what sort of animal he was.

“Yo me llamo Clay. ¿Habla español?”

The llamas said nothing.

“Is English better?”

He wasn’t certain the language selection mattered—he was pretty sure that his communication with animals operated on a different, more telepathic level—but it didn’t hurt to ask.

One of the llamas nodded. 

Or maybe it was just chewing.

Clay plunged ahead. 

“So how’s it going? How’s that grass?”

The other llama snorted and spit.

“The grass gets a little warm this late in the morning, doesn’t it?” Clay guessed. 

“But what can you do, right?”

This time, the llamas definitely seemed to be nodding.

Encouraged, Clay leaned in and lowered his voice. 

“So, hey, you know those buildings over there, where they keep your food?” 

He discreetly tilted his head in the direction of the silos.

The llama on the left made an inquiring noise. 

“No, no, I can’t open them for you—wish I could!” 

Clay smiled apologetically. 

“I was just wondering if they might be keeping anything else in there, like a two-legged animal, maybe? You know, like me. A human. But a girl human… or a woman human, I mean,” he corrected himself. 

Cass was twice his age, after all.

The llamas exchanged a glance before the one on the right spit casually and whinnied.

“So you think somebody does live in there?” said Clay, trying not to sound too excited.

The llama on the right conferred with the other, then whinnied again.

“You don’t know what they look like, but they smell like a two-legged animal? And they get special food delivered in the mornings?”

Yes! 

He made a fist. 

At last he knew where Cass was!

The llamas whinnied again, but now their whinnying was beginning to sound like whining.

“What? Why don’t you get special food like she does?” 

Clay shook his head sympathetically. 

“I don’t know. That’s a bummer. At least you’re not stuck inside a silo though, right? You have your freedom… sorta… for a while.…”

The llamas looked at him expectantly, waiting for him to finish his thought.

“Anyway, thanks for your help!” said Clay cheerily.

“You guys are really cool.”

He was about to turn to go, when they started nudging him with their noses. 

“What? Oh, man, I’m sorry, I would totally give you guys a carrot if I had one, but…” 

He shrugged helplessly.

Just then Satya walked over, shaking her head. 

“You really commit to a joke, I’ll tell you that much.”

“What do you mean?”

“You’ve been talking to those llamas for almost five minutes.”

“I was waiting for you to notice,” Clay improvised.

Shoot. 

He thought he was being more discreet. 

Had anyone else seen?

“Oh, I noticed, all right. Not too many people have full-on conversations with farm animals. Plants maybe.”

Satya leaned against the fence near him. 

Hero was perched on her shoulder again.

Tentatively, Clay reached out, intending to pet the bird’s cheek. 

Hero squawked angrily, and Clay jerked his hand away.

Satya laughed.

“Does she eat chocolate?” 

Clay pulled a leftover piece of chocolate out of his pocket. 

It was melted.

“No, she eats meat. And, by the way, that’s gross.” 

She reached into her own pocket and pulled out a cube of meat—just like the cubes they fed to the baby dragons. 

“Here, give her this.”

Clay made a face as he took it. 

“That was in your pocket? And you thought the chocolate was gross?”

Clay was about to say something else (devastatingly charming, no doubt), when a jangling sound announced that Amber was strolling toward them, wearing a ridiculous army-green safari bodysuit.

“Heyyyy, guys! How’s everything going over here?”

As Amber came closer, Clay saw what had made the jangling sound: Gyorg’s brass key ring, hanging from a belt loop on Amber’s bodysuit. 

There were so many keys on the ring that Clay was sure one of them must be for the silo.… 

But how to get it?

“Such a beautiful eagle you have,” she said.

“Falcon,” Satya corrected.

Amber leaned in and tried to pet Hero. 

Hero snapped at her, even more fiercely than she had snapped at Clay, he was happy to see.

Insulted, Amber pulled away from the bird. 

“Sheesh, you’re not the friendliest thing in the world, are you?”

“She’s a bird of prey, not a pet,” said Satya stiffly.

Clay thought back to what Leira had taught him on his last day at Earth Ranch: What were the three Ds of pickpocketing? Oh, yeah. Divert. Detach. Disappear.

“Hey, Amber,” said Clay, acting fast, “if you want to make friends with Hero, hold still.

”Before Satya or Amber could see what he was doing, he showed the cube of meat to the hungry bird, then placed it on Amber’s arm, just the way Satya had placed meat on his arm a day earlier.

Immediately, Hero spread her wings and lunged for the meat.

Amber screamed and swung wildly. 

The bird clung to her in a panic, wings flapping.

“Oh, sorry, sorry!” said Clay.

“Hero, stop that!” shouted Satya.

Clay’s heart thumped. 

It’s now or never, he told himself.

Under the guise of helping, he leaned into Amber, unhooked the key ring from her belt loop, and slipped it into his jeans. 

Success! 

He felt light-headed.

“Ugh, Satya,” Amber scolded when Hero was safely resting on Satya’s wrist. 

“That bird is a menace. I’m going to have to talk to Antoinette about it.” 

She rubbed her arm where she had been scratched by the bird’s claws.

“Sorry,” Satya said, calming Hero down. 

“I don’t know what happened. Just… just don’t get so close next time.”

Satya darted a look at Clay. 

If she didn’t know what he had done, she definitely suspected it.

“Come on. The Wandsworths have a question about the llamas that I need you to answer,” Amber said, dropping the sweet girlie tone of voice. 

“I guess it’s obvious I don’t know anything about animals.”

Satya shot a last accusatory look at Clay, then followed Amber out the gate to where the Land Rover was parked and the others were already waiting.

Clay felt bad; he had acted impulsively, without thinking about how it would affect Hero or Satya. 

However, he had the keys now; there was no backing out.

Glancing around to make sure there were no human eyes on him, he stepped over to the gate and lifted the latch. 

Quickly, he shoved the gate open a few inches and beckoned to the llamas nearby.

“Hey, guys, wanna get out and see the world?” he said, nudging the gate with his foot. 

“Here’s your chance—run!”

The llamas blinked at him for a minute, but then the pig came squealing past them and shoved its way through, forcing the gate open even wider. 

Blazing out of the barnyard, the pig ran right through Amber’s legs, making her scream and grabbing the attention of everyone else on the tour.

Soon the goats, the chickens, and even the llamas were making for the fence and scattering in a million directions. 

While Amber continued screaming and Charles retreated to the safety of the Land Rover, Satya and her father sprinted after the rampaging animals, trying desperately to steer them back toward the barn.

The Wandsworths, meanwhile, stood in the middle of the melee, scowling at everyone, apparently counting on their aura of disapproval to keep the animals from trampling them to the ground.

Under the cover of all that chaos, Clay ran to the third silo. 

Luckily, the door was on the far side of the silo, out of view of the group. 

Breathing heavily, Clay chose a key from Amber’s ring at random and fumblingly inserted it into the padlock. 

The first one didn’t fit, and neither did the second, third, fourth, or fifth. 

Just as he was getting really worried, Clay tried the sixth key.… Click!

The door swung open and Clay peered in, trying to make out any shapes in the silo’s dark interior.

A second later, there was an arm around his neck, and he was being dragged, choking, into the silo.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

THE PRISONER IN THE SILO

Moments earlier

The beetle must have thought it was safe.

It was the middle of the day, the middle of summer, the middle of the desert. 

(Well, the desert-turned-jungle, but how was the beetle to know that?)

Most of the beetle’s natural predators—the owls, the anteaters, even the snakes—would be fast asleep. 

And if they weren’t asleep, they wouldn’t have been able to get in here anyway, this cool, dark space that could only be entered through cracks and crevices in that round metal wall.

With single-minded determination, the beetle tiptoed across the dirt on its six bent legs. 

The goal: a lone crumb lying on the ground, in a narrow shaft of light. 

Alas, before the beetle could reach its target, a hand darted out from the darkness—and snatched up the beetle.

The hand belonged to a woman whose nose was smeared with dirt, who hadn’t washed her hair in weeks, and whose black clothes had long ago turned a dusty gray. 

And yet her pointy ears were as alert as ever.

She held the beetle between her thumb and forefinger, admiring its shell in the sliver of sunlight. 

A Namib Desert beetle! 

Adapted for the arid conditions in just the way the San people had described. 

At any other time, the Namib would have made an excellent specimen for study.

“I’m so sorry about this,” she whispered.

CRRRUNCH—Cass sighed discontentedly.

She was still hungry, though she hated to admit it. 

Gram for gram, insects are a great source of protein. 

Unfortunately, you have to eat a lot of them (hundreds, probably) to equal what you would get in a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, let alone in a hamburger. 

Not that she would ever eat a hamburger. 

She’d been a vegetarian—okay, vegetarian-ish—for as long she could remember. 

She ate meat, even bug meat, only when it was a matter of survival.

Naturally, she had been doing her best to maximize the meager rations that were delivered to her every morning. 

On the ground in front of her were tiny seedlings sprouting up in the spots most often hit by the sun: There was a tomato plant grown from a seed extracted from a quarter of a cherry tomato that had miraculously appeared in a so-called salad, a potato plant grown from a barely cooked potato that was supposed to have been her dinner one night, and an entire row of oats grown from a sack that had spilled before being removed from the silo. 

Soon she would have a veritable indoor farm.

Based on the tally marks she’d carved into the metal wall, it had been three weeks to the day since Ms. Mauvais had found her attempting to save a baby dragon on the lip of the crater. 

Three weeks that she’d been living in silo-tary confinement, as she’d taken to calling it. 

A pun she thought worthy of her friend Max-Ernest.

(I’m not so sure about that, but who am I to judge?) 

Her goal was total self-sufficiency. 

Every day she followed an intense workout regimen to keep her body in tip-top shape: push-ups, sit-ups, lunges, and squats, followed by an hour of running in place. 

To keep her brain sharp, she challenged herself to recite facts about Richter scale earthquake measurements and the epidemiology of infectious diseases. 

And, of course, she kept a journal, writing on the paper she made from pulped hay, with a quill made from a stray pigeon feather and ink made from crushed leaves and an old goji berry she’d found stuck in a fold in her pocket.

Ms. Mauvais had been visiting almost daily, sure that she could make Cass crack and reveal the secrets of the Terces Society, but Cass had only grown more resolute over time, and Ms. Mauvais more frustrated. 

“For your sake, I hope you have some information of value in that dull, plodding brain of yours,” Ms. Mauvais had said the previous evening. 

“The Secret Keeper, they used to call you. But do you really know how to get to the Other Side? Alas, I think not, and I’m beginning to tire of our little chats.”

The fact that the Midnight Sun knew of the existence of the Other Side was a huge blow.

Exactly how much the members knew about it—and what their activities at the Keep had to do with the Other Side, if anything—Cass had yet to ascertain. 

Her hope was to keep the conversations with Ms. Mauvais going for as long as possible; every question Ms. Mauvais asked told Cass more about what the Midnight Sun knew or suspected. 

By the time Ms. Mauvais gave up on her, Cass intended to have a comprehensive outline of the Midnight Sun’s plans and, of course, to have her own exit strategy worked out in detail.

That was the idea, anyway, until Max-Ernest’s little brother showed up.

The rattling of keys and fumbling attempts to open the door came as a surprise; Ms. Mauvais customarily visited Cass at night. 

As the struggles with the padlock became more and more frantic, Cass became increasingly suspicious. 

Whoever was at the door, it wasn’t Ms. Mauvais. 

And moreover they were very clumsy.

Clumsy enough to let Cass overpower them and escape from the silo? 

The timing wasn’t perfect, but experience had taught her to take advantage of opportunity when it knocked—or in this case, when it broke in.

When the door finally burst open and a boy stepped in, squinting, Cass was waiting, ready to put him in a headlock.

“Hey! Ow!” the intruder said in a muffled wheeze. 

His voice was oddly familiar, like the voice of a sitcom star or some Internet comedian. 

Then again, Cass never watched sitcoms or funny online videos.

Cass loosened her headlock and leaned around to see the intruder’s face. 

“Paul-Clay?”

“It’s just Clay now,” he said, coughing.

Cass released Clay and pulled him inside the silo, shutting the door behind him. 

“When did you get so tall? And more to the point, what the heck are you doing here?”

“Max-Ernest sent me to rescue you,” said Clay, dusting off his shirt and pants.

“You’re kidding.”

“Nope.” Clay looked over his shoulder. 

“I got her!” he said excitedly.

Cheers erupted in his ears. 

“Awesome!” 

“Congrats!”

Cass whipped around. 

But there was nothing behind her except her empty silo cell.

“Um—who are you talking to? Is your brother here somewhere?”

“Oh, no—” Clay pointed to his ski hat. 

“My hat is like a walkie-talkie. My friends at Earth Ranch say hi.”

“A walkie-talkie? This isn’t cops and robbers! The Midnight Sun don’t play games—do you know how dangerous this place is?”

“She says hi back,” said Clay.

“You know we can hear her.…”

“Why don’t you guys just take a break for a while, huh?”

Cass shook her head. 

“What was Max-Ernest thinking, sending a child!?”

“Didn’t you and my brother go on Terces Society missions when you were my age?” said Clay, more than a little miffed. 

“And you’re welcome, by the way.”

“Okay. You’re right.” 

Cass held up her hand—a truce. 

“So tell me, Special Agent Paul-Clay—sorry, Special Agent Just Clay—what’s your big escape plan?”

“Uh.” 

Clay shoved his hands in his pockets. 

“To fly out of here on a dragon.”

“I’m serious. You must have some idea.”

“That is the idea.”

Cass stared at him, incredulous. 

“You’ve been reading too many fantasy books.”

“I’ve done it before,” said Clay defensively. 

“I’ve flown on a dragon.”

“Your brother might have said something about that,” Cass admitted.

“Well, it’s true. We thought Ariella would be here, but, anyway, there’s no reason I can’t fly on another dragon,” he said, trying to sound confident. 

“I know the Occulta Draco.”

“The what? Never mind. Say you can fly a dragon, even though… well, say you can—isn’t there something stopping them from flying away?”

“You’re talking about the dome,” Clay said. 

“I found the tower where they control it. We just have to go there, turn it off, and then…”

“Find a dragon and ask it politely not to eat us?”

Clay took a breath. 

“If you really want to know, Owen was supposed to be here, too, but he got called back to the island. And his plane got stuck in some lava. So…”

“Dragons are all we’ve got,” Cass finished for him.

“Yeah. Pretty much.”

Cass nodded. 

“All right, then.”

She made a quick circle around the interior of the silo, saying a silent good-bye to her seedlings, then looked at Clay.

“Well?”

“Well what?” Clay asked.

“Lead us to that tower. I assume you’ve got the password or key or whatever we need for the job?”

“Um…” Clay paused.

Cass pursed her lips. 

“Right. Well, we’ll figure it out.”

“Yeah,” said Clay, relieved. 

“Hey, it’s really good to see you.”

Cass patted him on the head.

“That’s nice, but let’s have the tearful reunion later, okay?”

“Okay.” 

Clay gave her a little salute and turned around to lead them out of the silo.

Outside, the rest of Clay’s tour group was still battling renegade llamas.

It meant he and Cass had to take the long route, but Clay figured it was best to run in the opposite direction. 

They crept from the silo door toward the tree line, glancing backward the entire way to make sure they weren’t being seen.

Once under cover of the jungle, they doubled back and started pushing their way through bushes and vines. 

They tried to stay parallel to the road as they went, but even so they almost lost their way a few times.

It took more than thirty minutes to come in sight of the clearing where the control tower was located.

Cass was too busy looking at the tower to notice that Clay had stopped in his tracks. 

She was about to step into the clearing, when Clay grabbed her arm and put his hand over her mouth. 

“Shh! Don’t move!”

Lying on the ground in front of them, no more than ten feet away, was the spiky end of a huge green tail. 

It twitched, then swung out of the way, but when they leaned forward to see where the tail had gone, it swung back toward them, coming within inches of where they stood.

The tail was attached to a gigantic green body topped with delicately folded wings. 

On the dragon’s snout was a distinctive white mark.

“That’s Snowflake,” Clay whispered.

“Cute,” Cass whispered back.

He pointed to the line of white posts on either side of the dragon. 

Snowflake’s tail was sticking out from between them.

“See those posts with the blinking red lights—they send out the electric currents or whatever that make the dome. The good news is that the dragon can’t go all the way outside that line. Only up to its collar.”

“And the bad news is…?”

“The rest of the dragon is outside the line.”

“And to get to the control tower…”

“We have to pass the dragon, yeah.”

Cass nodded, calm and businesslike. 

“Is it sleeping?”

“Yeah… Well, maybe… not…”

Frozen in place, they watched as the dragon heaved itself up and stretched. 

Then it turned its massive head their way, nostrils flaring.

“Ow!” Clay squeaked. 

As calm as Cass seemed, she was digging her nails into his shoulder.

“Sorry.” 

She released Clay and took a step back. 

“Does it see us?”

“No… Well, maybe… yeah…”

The dragon was staring at them but not making a move.

“If it wanted to kill us, it already would have, right?” Cass asked after a moment. 

“I mean, you think we can just walk by it?”

“Yeah… Well, maybe…?”

“I thought you were the dragon guy,” said Cass. 

“You’re going to have to be a lot more decisive if we’re going to get out of here.”

“Okay, let’s walk, but… be prepared to run.”

Palms sweating, they started to walk as quickly and quietly as they could across the clearing.

The dragon watched, its strange lizard eyes giving them no clue whether it was happy, mad, or indifferent. 

Then, all of a sudden, one of its wings unfolded and stretched to full length, blocking them from seeing its face. 

With a quick move, the dragon shifted its weight and craned its neck around. 

It looked at them and roared briefly, just enough to make Clay feel like his heart was about to stop.

Cass looked from the dragon to Clay. 

“You’re sure you know how to handle these creatures? Better to tell me now…”

“I’m sure.” Clay avoided her gaze.

The dragon had bent its head and started licking its wings. 

Grooming itself.

“If you say so,” said Cass. 

“Looks like what we really need is some dragon catnip.”

As soon as they were safely past the white posts, Clay tugged on Cass’s arm and they hurried toward the tower. 

When they got to the ladder, they glanced around—they seemed to be alone—and started climbing.

Clay pushed opened the hatch door, and they pulled themselves into the room at the top of the tower. 

Cass took in the banks of computers and the beeping, blinking radar. 

Then she stepped to the window to observe the green dragon, now stretching out in a patch of sunlight.

“Okay,” said Cass. 

“As soon as you turn the dome off, we’re going to have to move fast. We slide down the side of the ladder like it’s a fire pole, then jump right onto that dragon.”

Clay nodded uncomfortably. 

There was no sense saying that they wouldn’t be able to jump onto a dragon like that. 

They would just have to try.

His hand hovered over a big red button beneath the digital map tracking the dragons’ movements. 

“I think it’s this one.”

“Well, press it.”

Taking a breath, Clay put his forefinger on the button and pushed.

“It doesn’t go down.”

“Maybe you have to unlock that first,” said Cass, pointing to a small keyhole.

Clay pulled Gyorg’s key ring from his pocket. 

He tried a few keys until he found one that fit.

Just as Clay’s hand hovered over the red button again, Cass tensed. 

“What was that sound? The dragon?”

“Actually, it was a car,” said a voice. 

“Parking.”

Clay quickly tucked the key ring under his waistband. 

Then turned around to see Gyorg pointing some kind of rifle at them.

“This is tranquilizer gun,” said Gyorg. 

“It will not kill you. But it will put you to sleep. And then when I push you out, there is very good chance you will die from fall.” 

He motioned to the open hatch door at his feet. 

“Or you climb down. You choose.”

Ms. Mauvais was waiting for them at the bottom with an expression of mild interest. 

Behind her, looking exceptionally smug, was Charles.

“Well, well,” Charles said. 

“What have we here, Austin?”

“Austin?” Cass repeated.

Clay nodded, trying to convey with his eyes that she should play along.

“I told you he was with the opposing team,” Charles said to Ms. Mauvais. 

“Or should I say the other side.”

Clay’s stomach lurched. 

He’d had a feeling Charles was onto him.

“No, he’s not,” said Cass quickly. 

“He’s not on any side. I just met him.”

“Somebody left the padlock open and dangling,” Clay jumped in, “and I… decided to look inside.”

Ms. Mauvais regarded him with undisguised skepticism. 

“Left it open, you say? How careless.”

“Happens to the best of us,” said Cass. 

“So anyway, he found me inside and took pity on me. Some people are like that. It’s called compassion.  Let him go.”

“Oh, you know me better than that, Cassandra,” said Ms. Mauvais scornfully. 

“I don’t let people go.” 

She made it sound like a silly new dance she would never try.

She turned to Clay. 

“It seems I was wrong to hope your father would continue investing in our little project here. But perhaps you will be valuable in any case—as a hostage. Now turn out your pockets so we know you’re not hiding any keys in there.”

His heart beating uncontrollably, Clay did as he was told. 

Luckily, he hadn’t had time to move the keys from his underwear to his pockets.

Ms. Mauvais nodded curtly, then snapped her fingers.

“Gyorg—”

Gyorg reached for Clay. 

Clay jerked away, and Gyorg wound up pulling the hat off Clay’s head.

“No!” Clay shouted before he shut his mouth. 

They were taking away his link to Leira and Brett and all of Earth Ranch, but he couldn’t risk letting them know that. 

“Hat head,” he said in response to Ms. Mauvais’s raised brow.

“You’ve got a lot more to worry about than hat head, young man,” Ms. Mauvais said.

She turned toward a waiting Land Rover. 

“Put that riffraff somewhere, Gyorg. I’ll deal with them later.”

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

THE VISION IN THE TOILET

Meanwhile, back on the ranch…

"Jonah, dude, you okay?” asked Pablo.

“I’m fine.”

“You’ve been in there for two hours. People are getting worried, man.”

“I said I’m fine. Go away.”

“Plus, you know, they need to go. You’re not the only guy in camp who has bodily functions to take care of.”

“Tell them to find a tree.”

“Let me talk to him,” said Kwan.

They were standing in line in front of every camper’s favorite outhouse. 

Favorite because it was isolated on a hill and therefore more private than the others (usually).

Also because it had no roof and therefore was not smelly and even had a bit of a view.

“Jonah, if you can’t pinch a loaf in two hours, it ain’t happening,” said Kwan. 

“So pull up your pants, open the door, and get your plugged-up butt over to Puke Yurt. Nurse Cora will give you something that will straighten you out in no time.”

“And if she can’t, I’ve got more of that exploding gum I made,” said Pablo. 

“That might help.”

“You guys are disgusting,” said Jonah from the other side of the door. 

“And, FYI, I’m not trying to poop, okay?”

His friends looked at each other. 

“You’re not?”

Leira and Brett walked up.

“I think he’s worried about Clay,” whispered Leira. 

She held up the conch shell walkie-talkie. 

“We told him the phone line went dead.”

“He’s probably crying in there,” Brett mouthed. 

“But don’t say anything, okay?”

“Jonah, are you crying in there?” asked Pablo loudly, grinning at the others. 

“Brett thinks you are.”

Brett rolled his eyes.

“We don’t care—you can cry in front of us,” said Kwan. 

“There’s no shame in that.”

“Yeah, just man up and own those tears, bro!” said Pablo.

“Anyway, it’s just us. It’s not like there’s”—Kwan looked down the line and counted—“ten kids waiting to use the toilet or anything.”

“Okay,” said Jonah. 

“You really want so badly to know what I’m doing, come in and see for yourself.”

“No, that’s okay, some other time,” said Kwan quickly.

“Yeah, man, your business… is your business,” said Pablo.

The door opened, and Jonah beckoned them inside. 

He was standing up and fully dressed.

“No, please, come on in,” said Jonah. 

“I insist.”

Reluctantly, his friends all squeezed inside.

“Well, this is cozy,” said Brett cheerily. 

“Thanks for inviting us in.”

“Look—” Jonah pointed to the toilet.

“Do we have to?” said Leira.

“Yep.”

Jonah’s four guests looked into the toilet and were relieved to see nothing except water.

“So what are we looking for?” asked Brett. 

“Just out of curiosity.”

“You don’t see any swirling shapes?”

“Not really.”

“Or, like, sparkles or shimmers?”

“Nope.”

“I guess that’s ’cause you guys don’t have second sight.” 

Jonah pushed his friends out of the way and looked down at the toilet himself. 

“I didn’t want to say, because it’s kinda embarrassing, but this is where I have my best visions.”

Leira laughed. 

“Oh, so you weren’t crying in the toilet. You were—”

“Scrying, yeah. And it’s not a joke,” said Jonah. 

“I’ve been trying to see what’s happening with Clay, but he’s half a world away, and I’ve never been there, and that makes it harder.…” *

Then Jonah leaned farther in. 

“Wait, I think I’m seeing something!” he said excitedly.

“Is it yellow or brown?” 

Pablo snickered.

“Shut up, I’m serious.”

The water in the toilet bowl, which had been reflecting the clear blue sky, now seemed to darken.

Jonah peered in, trying to discern what the darkening gray blob in the water could be. 

“I think that might be the body of an animal, and those—could those be wings?”

The others gasped as the vision in the toilet bowl suddenly became clear.

“It’s a dragon!” Jonah shouted. 

“But what’s happening? Is it attacking Clay?”

Heart in his throat, Jonah concentrated still harder on what the toilet bowl was showing him. 

The dragon’s features became clearer and clearer, and closer and closer, as if it were coming right at Jonah. 

“It’s getting bigger, and it looks vicious!” he shouted.

Leira tapped him on his shoulder, but he ignored her.

“Where is it?” he asked frantically, still staring at the water. 

“Where’s it going? Has it already attacked him? Clay, can you hear me, buddy?” 

The shoulder tapping turned to shaking.

Finally, Jonah leaned back. 

“What do you want?! There’s a dragon out there somewhere, and I think it might be eating Clay!”

“There’s a dragon, all right, but it’s nowhere near Clay,” said Leira.

“Huh?”

“That wasn’t a vision you saw. It was a reflection.”

Jonah glanced around; his friends’ faces were all turned upward, their necks craned.

“Oh, wow,” he said when he finally saw what they were seeing. 

“Sure looked smaller in the toilet.”

Swooping low over the island, like a great eagle returning to its nest, was a dragon—the dragon known as Ariella.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

THE PRISONER IN THE SILO II

It’s the principle of the thing,” Cass said, shaking her head at the patch of freshly trampled dirt. 

“Do you know how hard I worked getting those seeds to sprout?”

Cass walked over to the door, where a security guard was now posted twenty-four hours a day. 

She and Clay wouldn’t be able to sneeze without Ms. Mauvais knowing about it.

“Did you even wait to apprehend us before destroying my garden?” Cass shouted at the door. 

“Strange set of priorities, if you ask me!”

I could say the same to you, Clay thought, but he didn’t say so aloud.

He sat against the wall, slumped down with his chin on his knees. 

He wished Cass would stop yelling so he could be miserable in silence. 

He had failed—totally, utterly, no-bones-about-it failed. 

No, it was worse than that. 

What was it called when you double down on failure? 

Instead of rescuing Cass, he’d been thrown into jail with her; there were now two prisoners rather than one.

All they could do was sit and wait… for what? 

Who would come save them? 

Owen and the Earth Ranch crew were grounded, thanks to the volcano’s appetite for seaplanes, and who else was there? 

Max-Ernest? 

Yeah, right, Clay thought. 

Fat chance.

Cass stopped pacing and looked at Clay, as if noticing him for the first time. 

“Clay? I hope you’re not just sitting there moping,” she said sternly.

“That’s exactly what I’m doing.”

“That’s ridiculous. Things could be much worse.”

“Worse?” Clay said, exasperated. 

“How?”

Cass shrugged. 

“We could be trapped in here with one of those dragons. Or they could be torturing us for information. Or we could be shipped off to some supersecret Midnight Sun prison in Antarctica.…”

“Okay! I didn’t actually want examples,” Clay said. 

“I just can’t believe I messed this up so badly.”

“Don’t blame yourself. It’s very self-indulgent.”

“Thanks,” said Clay sarcastically. 

“That makes me feel a lot better.”

Cass seemed like she was about to lecture him some more, then stopped herself and sat down next to Clay. 

“Look. Back in the day, your brother and I got in much worse scrapes, and we always got through it.”

That was the last thing Clay wanted to hear about. 

“Yeah, yeah,” he muttered. 

“My brother never would have screwed things up so bad. And I’m sure if he was here, he would tell me all about it.” He paused. 

“If he talked to me at all.”

“Uh, excuse me?” Cass said, leaning back to look at Clay. 

“Max-Ernest screwed things up plenty of times, believe me. And let’s face it: He has a lot of faults, but not talking has never been one of them.”

“Oh yeah?” Clay scoffed.

“The last time I saw him, the only time he visited in two years, he talked a lot, sure—to you, on the phone. But he only talked to me for a minute, and that was about what kind of helmet I should wear when I skateboard. I don’t think safety lectures really count as quality time.”

Cass looked at him with what for her passed as sympathy. 

“You know what he was talking to me about that day?” she asked.

Clay shook his head.

“He was trying to convince me not to come here alone.” 

She glanced around their silo prison. 

“And, in hindsight, he had some good points.”

“Okay, so he doesn’t even convince you not to go on a suicide mission—sorry, it’s true—and then the minute he gets off the phone he runs off to Mexico with that Anthony dude. He barely said good-bye.”

“Well, he and Anthony had to go talk to this man named Perry about the Keep.”

“Perry? You mean Brett’s father. The guy who kidnapped Ariella for the Midnight Sun.”

“Well, whatever he did in the past, he’s a broken man now. The Midnight Sun beat him up and left him on the side of the road in Baja. More or less.”

“He deserves it,” said Clay, remembering the moment when Brett’s father left him and Brett under the volcano to die.

“Maybe so… Your brother and Anthony didn’t get anything useful out of him, but they had to try.” 

She sighed. 

“Anyway, I’m sure they enjoyed themselves. It was their first trip together and all.”

Clay looked at her askance. 

“Wait—you don’t mean together together?”

“Oh, you didn’t know?” Cass asked, flustered.

Clay shook his head.

Cass could see the wheels turning inside him. 

“Are you surprised that he’s with a guy?”

Shrugging, Clay considered this. 

“I guess I’m surprised he’s with anyone at all.…”

Cass smiled. 

“I know what you mean. Max-Ernest isn’t exactly the dating type.” 

She nudged Clay with her shoulder. 

“That’s why we should be happy for him, right?”

“I guess so,” said Clay, not entirely convinced.

“But maybe a little sorry for Anthony,” Cass joked.

“Yeah, heh…” Clay chuckled. 

“I hope he likes puns. Like, a lot.”

(I’m afraid I don’t see the humor here.)

“At least he’ll get chocolate,” Cass reflected.

“What about you?” Clay asked. 

“Weren’t you with Yo-Yoji?”

Cass threw her head back and laughed so loud it echoed in the silo. 

“Oh that was a long time ago! Yo-Yoji has had a lot of girlfriends since then. Comes with the territory, traveling the world as a DJ. You know he’s designing his own product line now? It started with headphones. Now there are phone cases, sneakers, sunglasses…” 

Cass shook her head, lost in some memory. 

“I’m counting on him to start funding the Terces Society.

“And you?” she asked. 

“You seem a little more… advanced than Max-Ernest and I were when we were your age.… Do you have a girlfriend?”

“Er, no, but…” Clay could feel his face turning red. 

He was grateful for the darkness.

“There’s a girl you like?”

“Sorta.” 

Clay avoided meeting Cass’s eyes.

“She has a boyfriend?”

“I don’t think so.…”

Just then there was a loud tinny banging sound from above, and then an echoing caw.

Clay looked up in surprise. 

Satya’s falcon, Hero, was swooping down from an air vent with something hanging from her beak. 

“She has a bird, though,” he said, staring.

“That one?”

“Yep—ow!”

Hero landed on Clay’s shoulder, digging her claws in, and dropped Clay’s ski hat into his lap.

“Thanks,” said Clay to Hero as calmly as he could.

The falcon bowed her head in acknowledgment.

Then, job done, she lifted off and flew back up and out of the vent, leaving Clay rubbing his shoulder.

Inside the hat, there was a folded-up piece of paper.

Cass raised an eyebrow. 

“Well, that’s one way to send a love note.”

Blushing even harder, Clay opened it. 

Satya had scrawled a few words in pencil: Be ready in five—Reading over Clay’s shoulder, Cass smiled. 

“Hmm, I think I like this girl.”

They were waiting right beside the door, when Satya stepped into the silo, leaving the door cracked open behind her. 

Hero was sitting on her arm.

“You guys ready?”

Clay nodded, his ski hat now back on his head. 

“What happened to the guard?”

Satya grinned and held up a walkie-talkie.

“I used my dad’s walkie to call him off. But he won’t be gone long. We have about three minutes to get out of here, tops.” 

She looked at Cass. 

“I’m Satya, by the way.”

“Cass. And thanks,” said Cass.

“Yeah, thanks. This is so… awesome of you.…” 

After his confessional conversation with Cass, Clay was having a hard time looking Satya in the eye.

He made for the door, but Satya pressed a hand to his chest.

“Wait—first I want to know who you are. Really.”

“I wanted to tell you,” said Clay eagerly, “but—” Cass clasped them both by the shoulder. 

“I don’t want to ruin the moment, but can we do this later?”

“Sure.” 

Satya nodded and pushed open the door.

“Clay! My name is Clay!” 

Clay said as the three dashed outside.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

THE RUN THROUGH THE JUNGLE

As they ran through the jungle, with Cass shushing them and hurrying them along at every step, Clay did his best to explain to Satya who he was, why he was at the Keep, and how he planned to escape. 

And even though it wasn’t strictly necessary, he told her why he wore a wool hat in hot weather. 

Just so she wouldn’t think he really thought it was cool.

In most circumstances, his tale about a magical camp for juvenile delinquents and an evil society of centuries-old alchemists, not to mention his desire to become a Dragon Tamer and follower of the Occulta Draco, would have seemed far-fetched, to say the least. 

However, Satya had been living for weeks among the Midnight Sun and had seen dragons up close, so she was inclined to believe him.

“The way you handled Houdini—I knew you looked a little too comfortable for it to be your first time with a dragon.”

Predictably, the part of Clay’s story Satya had trouble with was the part that had him and Cass flying away.

“Be serious—you can’t just fly those dragons out of here. First of all, there’s the electric dome, remember?” 

Satya pointed at the sky. 

“Plus, I don’t know what Ariella was like, but those dragons aren’t really hop-on-board types.”

“What about that crazy guy with the mustache and the cowboy hat?” said Clay, trying not to let her see how winded he was. 

“Show-ringer or something. He was trying to jump on Snowflake like it was a horse. He even had a bullwhip in his hand.…”

Clay held up an invisible whip, imitating. 

Satya looked at him like he was nuts, until it dawned on her.

“Wait, are you talking about Mr. Schrödinger? They told me he was gone.…”

“Well, maybe gone in the head, but he’s still around.” 

Clay almost tripped over a root, then righted himself. 

“I overheard him talking, and it sounded like he’d actually ridden the dragon before. He wouldn’t stop babbling, saying he had to go back somewhere, that he’d never really left.”

Cass stopped and looked back at Clay. 

“What else did he say?”

“Uh, not much. Nothing that made any sense, anyway. Ms. Mauvais promised he would be able to go back eventually, and that when he did, he would be a young man again.”

“A young man again—she said those exact words?” asked Cass sharply.

“Uh-huh,” said Clay, surprised by her tone. 

“I mean, I think so.”

She silently considered what Clay had said.

Clay turned back to Satya. 

“Well, anyway, I still have Gyorg’s keys, so I can turn off the dome if—” Satya shook her head. 

“You can’t go back to the control tower; they’ll be watching it now.” She hesitated. 

“But I guess if somebody else went—like me, for instance…”

“No way,” Clay said quickly. 

“You’ve done enough.”

“Very gentlemanly,” said Cass.

“But isn’t this her choice to make?”

“Here’s the thing,” said Satya. 

“If we turn the dome off, the other dragons will get out, too, and they’ll attack everyone here. I don’t like those white-gloved weirdos very much, but I don’t want to kill them. Plus, my dad would totally get fired.”

“Trust me, you don’t want your dad working for them,” Cass said.

“And anyway, even if they get out, the dragons will still have their collars on,” said Clay. 

“So your dad can still control them, right?”

“Maybe. Once the dome is turned back on,” said Satya. 

“But let’s try not to let them get out in the first place.”

She looked from Clay to Cass and back again. 

“Okay, if you give me the key, I’ll create a distraction, then shut off the dome. But only for, like, a minute. Seriously”—she held up her index finger—“one minute. And it has to be at night so nobody sees me. Let’s say right after sunset.”

“That should be about eight twenty-one tonight,” Cass said. 

At Satya’s look, Cass shrugged. 

“Always good to know what time the sun sets, just in case.”

“Fine. Say, four minutes after that, to give you guys time. At eight twenty-five, I’ll shut down the dome. You’d both better be on a dragon and flying the heck out of here by then, because a minute later—” 

She made a buzzing sound to indicate the dome turning back on.

“You realize the Midnight Sun will be very unhappy with you if you’re caught,” said Cass.

“They won’t catch me,” Satya said confidently.

“You’re sure?” prodded Clay. 

“Because we can do this ourselves, really—”

“No, you can’t, and it’s gonna be fine.”

“Okay, thanks,” Clay said awkwardly. 

“This is really cool of you.”

“Yeah, it is,” said Satya, businesslike. 

“Now, where are you going to hide in the meantime?”

Clay stared into the jungle. 

“I think it’s time for me to ally with a dragon.”

“Ally?”

“Like, make an alliance? That’s what it’s called in the Occulta Draco when you make friends with a dragon. Except you can’t ever make friends with a dragon. So… yeah.”

Both Cass and Satya blinked at him.

“You’re not exactly inspiring confidence,” said Cass.

“Oh, no worries,” Clay said with an effort at heartiness. 

“I’ve read all about it, and I’ve got a couple of hours, right?”

“If you say so…” Cass was looking upward and frowning.

While they were talking, the clouds had parted and the mysterious line had appeared in the sky again. 

It flashed in the sunlight.

“That line in the sky—I saw it three weeks ago. Has it been there this whole time?” Satya shrugged. 

“I think so? I mean, I only notice it sometimes. Why?”

“I’m just thinking about my original mission, that’s all,” said Cass, still focused on the sky. 

“What are they really doing with the dragons here? This guy Schrödinger—I have a hunch that he might be the answer.”

Cass looked at her young companions. 

“Where do I find him?”

“Um, he’s in one of the tents, unless he got out again,” said Clay. 

“But you’re not thinking of going now, are you?”

“I’ll meet you at nightfall.”

“Where?” asked Clay as she ran off.

“At the edge of the clearing, near the tower,” Cass called over her shoulder.

And with that, she disappeared into the shadows of the pathless jungle, leaving Satya and Clay alone.

“I have to get back,” Satya said. 

“They’re going to freak when they realize you two have broken out again.”

She backed up and paused.

“What?” said Clay.

“Nothing. Just… your watch is working, right?”

Clay nodded, suddenly very grateful that Owen had given him the watch.

“Good. Remember: 8:25.”

“I will. Don’t forget this—” Clay handed her Gyorg’s key ring, with the dome key sticking up. 

“Hey, Satya?”

“Yeah?”

“Well, now that you know who I am…”

“What?”

“Nothing,” said Clay helplessly. 

He wouldn’t have known how to tell her he liked her, even if they’d been in the normal world and not in an unbelievable, life-threatening situation.

Satya looked at him, a little confused. 

“Okay, well, I’ll be at the guard tower tonight,” she said, then turned to run off. 

Hero squawked something that Clay hoped meant she likes you, too—although it sounded more like I’m hungry—and flew after her.

Suddenly, Clay felt very alone. 

He tapped the side of his ski hat, hoping to hear his Earth Ranch buddies on the other end. 

There was no response.

He tapped again. 

Still nothing. 

Could something have happened to the hat while it was out of his hands?

Clay sighed. 

Oh well. 

It wasn’t as though Leira or Brett could really advise him on how to ally with a dragon. 

He considered taking the hat off—it was as hot and itchy as ever—but he was loath to. 

Even if it wasn’t working, it made him feel a little more connected to his friends.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

THE FIRE IN THEIR BELLIES

Clay loved the Occulta Draco and the whole idea of becoming a Dragon Tamer too much to think ill of that ancient memoir-slash-instruction manual, but I have no such scruples: It was, and is, a singularly unhelpful document.

Clay well remembered the page in Secrets of the Occulta Draco where allying was discussed. 

According to the author, most Dragon Tamers formed an alliance by bestowing a gift, performing a favor, or singing a song. 

Well, he had no gift to give and no idea what favor to bestow; and as for a song, he could hardly carry a tune.

He would just have to improvise.

During the helicopter tour, he’d seen all three of the grown dragons hanging out at the big lake near the center of the crater. 

If he didn’t run into any of them sooner, he decided, he would make his way there. 

He only hoped he’d find a dragon before a dragon found him.

Taking a deep breath, he walked between two poles and crossed the border of the dome.

Clay might not have had a good singing voice, but unlike his older brother, he had a decent sense of direction (perhaps because he had been left to navigate for himself so often as a young kid). 

Watching for telltale footprints, listening for telltale footsteps, and even smelling for telltale, well, dragon patties, Clay pushed his way deeper and deeper into the jungle, terrified all the while that he would be caught unawares.

Soon enough, he could see cracks of light between the trees, and he could hear what sounded like a distant waterfall. 

A moment later the jungle suddenly ended, and Clay was squinting against the bright late-afternoon sun.

He’d found the lake, but as far as he could see, he hadn’t yet found a dragon.

He started walking around the water’s edge, looking for any talon or tail that might happen to be peeking out from behind a boulder, listening for a roaring yawn or a stomach rumble that might be coming from a hidden cave. 

The lake was perfectly clear, and Clay could see the sandy bottom—probably the only part of the crater that looked the way it had before the Midnight Sun arrived.

Then Clay heard a loud metallic scratching that made the hair on his neck stand up. 

It was coming from a little ways down the lake, just inside the tree line.

Clay proceeded with caution, peering around the trunk of a giant banana tree. 

There was Snowflake standing up on two powerful hind legs. 

The smallest of the three grown dragons, Snowflake nonetheless looked huge in this posture. 

The dragon was backed up against a tall boulder, scraping its back and neck against the rock’s surface. 

From the expression on Snowflake’s face, the dragon was having a difficult time scratching whatever spot was itchy. 

As Clay watched, unsure what to do, the frustrated dragon let out a roar of aggravation and slumped onto its big scaly rear end.

Was there a way Clay could help?

He stepped out from behind the tree and approached slowly.

“Hey there, buddy,” Clay said, putting on a big smile. 

“Whatcha doin’? Can’t get to that itch, huh?” 

He took one step forward, then two. 

“I hate that feeling.”

Snowflake turned toward Clay and gave him a sullen, withering look.

Silently, Clay cursed himself, remembering how Ariella had reacted every time Clay suggested there was any similarity between a human and a dragon. 

On the upside, at least Snowflake appeared to understand him.

“Oh, sorry!” Clay said. 

“You’re totally right. I have no idea what you feel. I’m just a lowly creature who can’t fly or do anything cool.”

He paused for a moment, then took another step. 

“I wouldn’t bring it up except—if you wanted—I could help you out and give you a scratch. I mean, if you had an itch. Sometimes you need a second pair of hands… or, er, claws or whatever.”

Snowflake continued to stare dubiously at him but seemed to be considering Clay’s offer. 

With a resigned snort, the dragon slumped down on its belly, wings folded at its sides and front legs folded underneath like a cat’s.

Clay glanced around quickly and spied a palm frond lying on the ground. 

The leaves had fallen off, leaving a long serrated edge.

“Hey, now, this looks like a good back scratcher, doesn’t it?”

Holding up the palm frond so Snowflake could see it, Clay approached slowly. 

The dragon followed his movements with a dark, unblinking eye.

Cautiously, Clay leaned against the dragon’s side, feeling its great belly rise and fall as it breathed. 

He reached up as far as he could with the palm frond and started scratching the sharp ridges of Snowflake’s back.

“Here? No—a little farther up… Here? Okay, to the left…”

Clay scratched and scratched, following Snowflake’s directions, until he was scratching along the dragon’s neck. 

Clay was momentarily confused by a strange buzzing sound, then realized it was coming from the gleaming steel ring around Snowflake’s neck.

“Er—uh—” Clay stalled, nervous about getting too close to the mysterious piece of technology.

But the dragon twisted its neck, urging Clay forward, until Clay got the message and slid the end of the palm frond under the collar and started scratching as best he could.

The dragon shut its eyes and made a rumbling sound almost like a purr. 

“Aha, found it, huh?” Clay said, scratching harder. 

He wasn’t sure how vigorously dragons liked to be scratched, but there wasn’t much chance of damaging the steel-hard scales.

Could he really be making an alliance this easily? 

Clay wondered. 

What would happen if he were to try to climb onto the dragon’s back right now?

He was on the verge of asking for a ride when the dragon abruptly shook itself and knocked Clay onto his butt.

“Hey!” Clay said, getting up. 

“What did I do?”

With a casual swing of a wing, the dragon swiped at Clay, brushing him away. 

Clearly, petting time was over.

Blinking lazily, Snowflake stretched, then readjusted, seemingly ready for a nap. 

Seeing that Clay was still standing there, the dragon swiped once more. 

Clay leaped backward, barely avoiding the knife-sharp talon at the end of Snowflake’s wing.

“Jeez!” Just when he thought he was making progress…

The dragon twisted its neck around and roared into the air. 

Clay scrambled back to the edge of the lake, unsure whether Snowflake would pursue him.

When Clay looked back, there was no sign of the dragon. 

Snowflake didn’t want to play cat and mouse after all.

He leaned over, resting his hands on his knees while he caught his breath.

Should he go back and continue trying to ally with Snowflake? 

He didn’t relish the idea, especially if the dragon was taking a nap. 

But he had so little time; he couldn’t afford to wait a few hours before trying again.

Before he could decide on his next move, a wild rustling in the trees caught his attention.

Something very big was tromping through the jungle, and it was causing quite a ruckus.

Could Snowflake have gotten over there so fast?

Clay didn’t exactly like the idea of walking toward whatever monster was tromping through the jungle, but there was no time for hesitation. 

He stood up straight, set his jaw, and marched in the direction of the rustling trees.

It wasn’t Snowflake; it was Rover. 

The gigantic gray dragon was hopping and skipping around, thrashing its head and whimpering. 

The sight of the great beast in such distress was a little bit comical, but a lot scary. 

Clay was almost clawed, walloped, and trod upon—all before the dragon had even glimpsed him.

Rover hopped around a few more times before Clay could see what was upsetting the dragon so much: a honey-dripping beehive nestled in the crook of a tree—a crook too narrow for the dragon’s massive claws to squeeze into. 

Clay watched as the dragon tried once, twice, and a third time to stick its long twisty tongue inside to get to the honey.

The bees were onto Rover, though, and they flew into the dragon’s mouth and buzzed around the dragon’s eyes, sending Rover into fits of fury.

There was probably no way the bees could sting through the dragon’s armor of scales, but by all appearances they were driving the dragon crazy nonetheless.

Clay stepped closer, smiling wide to show he was friendly (though come to think of it, baring his teeth at a dragon wasn’t necessarily the greatest idea). 

“Hey—hey there, Rover,” said Clay, his hands sweating. 

“Are you trying to get some honey?”

The dragon spotted him—and let out a roar that shook the trees.

Clay swallowed but didn’t move. 

“I’ll take that as a yes,” he said.

“Why don’t you give me a shot? 

The dragon roared again, a little more angrily this time.

“Sorry!” Clay said quickly. 

“I didn’t mean so I could have it. I meant, why don’t you let me get the honey for you?”

Rover’s eyes looked confused and suspicious. 

Generosity seemed to be a new concept for the dragon.

“Really, I just want to help.”

Rover seemed to get the gist and reluctantly backed away from the beehive, but only a few feet. 

The dragon wasn’t about to leave this strange human alone with such a treasure.

Last summer at Earth Ranch, Buzz had taught Clay the most common beekeeper trick for extracting honeycomb from a beehive: smoke. * 

Alas, Clay had no matches or lighter, and he couldn’t just snap his fingers to create a flame, like Flint could. 

But Buzz, quite unintentionally, had also taught Clay a little about talking to the bees.

Clay approached the beehive slowly, with steady footsteps. 

He carefully stuck an arm out, not flinching when first one and then a dozen angrily buzzing bees landed on his hands and arms. 

They tickled a bit as they walked on his skin, and Clay was certain he would be stung at any second, but he reminded himself that getting killed by a dragon, or by the Midnight Sun, would be much worse.

“I need to take a little bit of your honeycomb,” he told them, in the peculiar humming voice Clay had heard Buzz speak in. 

“It is for your own good. It is the only way the dragon will leave you alone.”

It took a few tries and some more coaxing, but apparently he was doing a passable imitation of bee-speak, because eventually the bees allowed Clay to get a handle on the hive and to snap off a Frisbee-sized piece of honeycomb.

Clay backed up a few steps until only the very curious—or very lazy—bees were left on his hands.

“Thank you, thank you, thank you,” he said, relief washing over him. 

“I will never get mad at Buzz’s bees for bugging me again.”

Then he tossed the honeycomb in a big arc toward Rover.

The dragon lifted its head and snatched the honeycomb out of the air with about the closest thing a dragon can get to a grin.

The dragon dropped the honeycomb on the grass and, awkwardly holding the honeycomb with its talons, started licking pockets of honey with its tongue.

“How is it?” Clay asked.

Rover looked at Clay, tongue lolling like a big, dopey golden retriever’s.

Clay laughed.

“Awesome.”

He was about to sit down and try to work his way into a conversation with Rover, when a telltale rumbling came from deep within the forest. 

The steady plodding of heavy footsteps grew closer and closer, until Clay was nearly bonked on the head by a coconut that had been knocked loose from a palm tree.

Clay backed up until he was half inside a shrub, trembling a bit as the other dragon drew nearer.

Bluebeard entered the clearing on slow and steady feet, the dragon’s long sharp claws digging into the ground, ripping the earth apart with every step. 

The blue markings on Bluebeard’s face made the dragon look especially fierce as it searched the clearing, sniffing around for the human intruder.

Then Bluebeard noticed the honeycomb dripping from Rover’s talons. 

With a contemptuous growl, Bluebeard looked from the hard-to-reach beehive to the big oaf of a dragon. 

It was pretty clear that Bluebeard didn’t think Rover capable of stealing that sweet golden treasure without assistance.

It was also pretty clear that Bluebeard didn’t like the idea of Rover’s cozying up to a human.

Clay considered his options: Give up on the dragons and run away—and most likely be found and eaten anyway. 

Or face Bluebeard and try to ally with the toughest, meanest dragon of the bunch.

Clay took a deep breath and stepped forward.

Bluebeard regarded the puny human through slit eyes; the ends of the dragon’s blue mustache-like lips curled upward as if to say, Aha! I knew it was you!

“Hey,” Clay said, trying to sound relaxed, though his heart was beating wildly. 

“Do you want some honeycomb, too?”

Bluebeard snorted, then turned to Rover and, with a lightning-fast swipe of a talon, knocked the honeycomb out of the clearing. 

Rover whimpered. 

The message: Bluebeard didn’t want any honeycomb that Clay had touched, and Rover wasn’t to have it, either.

“Right,” Clay said. 

“I know humans haven’t really been the coolest to you guys.”

Bluebeard stared at him. 

Rover lowered its eyes.

“Those collars—they really suck.”

At the mention of the collars, Rover sat up straight, and Bluebeard emitted a low rumbling growl.

“Oh, heh,” Clay said, raising his hands and backing up a little. 

“I’m just trying to say I’m not like those other humans.”

For some reason, this seemed to puzzle Bluebeard.

What is a human?

It took Clay a moment to realize that Bluebeard had asked him a question—telepathically—and that the dragon expected an answer.

“Me, I’m a human.”

Ah, a two-leg-no-wing. 

You put the collars on our necks.

“Yes. I mean, no, I’m not the one who—”

You try to control us, but soon we will kill you.

There was a chilling confidence to Bluebeard’s assertion.

“No, don’t kill me! I’m going to… turn off the collars and get you out of here. I’m not like the other… two-leg-no-wings. I’m friends with a dragon!”

Bluebeard looked at him contemptuously. 

What is a dragon?

“A dragon? You’re kidding.”

No, Clay thought, Bluebeard’s not kidding. 

How would these dragons know what a dragon was?

They’re the only ones they’ve ever known.

“You. You are a dragon. You and Rover and…”

Bluebeard roared in fury. Liar!!! 

We are not dragons!

“Um, okay,” said Clay backing away farther. 

“But why do you say that?”

You said you were friends with a dragon. 

One of our kind would never be friends with a two-leg-no-wing monster.

Well, if anything proves you’re a dragon, it’s your attitude, thought Clay.

Aloud, he said, “Well, you don’t have to call yourself a dragon if you don’t want to, but I would be stoked to be one if I were you.”

Bluebeard nudged Rover, and they both roared at Clay.

We. Are. Not. Dragons.

The two dragons were standing on all fours now and looked like they were waiting for one more reason, any reason, to toss Clay in the air like a human volleyball. 

Panic like he’d never known engulfed Clay.

At least they couldn’t breathe fire. 

That was something.

Sing. 

He should sing. 

Like the Occulta Draco suggested. 

It was the only thing left. 

But he couldn’t think of a single song that seemed remotely applicable to the circumstances.

So just make one up, he told himself.

“Dragons are awesome. They’re old and wise,” he sang-shouted, aware that he sounded terrible, but pushing ahead as if his life depended on it (which it did).

“They’re pretty much the all-around coolest guys.…” Bluebeard looked at him with a fury like Clay had never seen; it was as if he had just insulted Bluebeard, the dragon’s family, and everything the dragon held dear.

We. Are. Not. Dragons.

Singing wasn’t the answer.

The incensed dragon rose up on hind legs and opened its mouth, taking a big, deep breath.… Clay inched backward, feeling the blood drain from his head.

Bluebeard let out a deafening and then suddenly, as if it had been waiting there all along, fire blasted out of the dragon’s mouth like out of the back of a rocket ship. 

ROARRRRR!!!  

A few stray hairs sticking out of Clay’s ski hat were singed; he’d narrowly avoided being burned alive.

So they could breathe fire after all. 

He had never been less happy to have been proven right.

Bluebeard looked briefly stunned. 

Then, with the thrill of a toddler taking her first steps—or, more to the point, the thrill of a caveman who has just discovered fire—the dragon reared back and released another fiery plume, even bigger and more powerful than the first.

Their conversation was over.

Summoning his nerve, Clay forced himself to move.

With the sulfurous odor of dragonfire in his nose, he ran blindly into the jungle. 

Heedless of the branches scratching his arms and legs, he scrambled over rocks and tripped on tree roots. 

Anything to get away from Bluebeard.

Around him, one tree after another burst into flame. 

The dragon was in pursuit.

As he ran, panicked, panting, Clay gradually realized he wasn’t heading to the dome’s perimeter, as he’d intended; he was circling back in the direction he’d come from. 

When he broke through the tree line, he found himself once again facing the lake, but now he was at the upper end, which was bordered by a sheer rock cliff. 

A natural wall that Clay would have had trouble climbing even if he’d had all the right equipment and all the time in the world. 

He had reached a dead end.

Behind him, still partly hidden among the trees, but getting closer with every earthshaking step, was Bluebeard. 

And not far behind Bluebeard followed Rover, and now Snowflake as well, galloping after their leader.

One after another, the dragons spit triumphant fireballs into the air, leaving tree after tree in flames.

A trio of dragons that had just learned they could breathe fire.

In seconds, Clay would be at their mercy.

But out of the corner of his eye, Clay detected something: a dark sliver in the cliff, almost like an opening.…

The entrance to a cave?

Yes.

Clay sprinted toward it, relieved to see that the opening was big enough for him to get through comfortably, but much too small for a dragon. 

Consciously deciding not to consider what creatures besides dragons he might encounter inside, Clay slid into the cave just as Bluebeard burst from the trees.

The dragon roared upon seeing his human quarry disappear, then repeatedly rammed the side of the cliff in frustration. 

Clay backed up against the inside wall of the cave as pebbles and loose dirt showered down on him.

Bluebeard, agitated, backed away from the cliff, huffing and puffing angrily. 

Then the dragon let out a roar and charged at the cliff again, sending a wall of fire inside the cave. 

Holding his breath, Clay jumped out of the way just in time to avoid being engulfed in flames. 

He could smell his arm hairs as they curled in the heat. 

If Bluebeard kept this up, he would be no better off than a chicken in an oven. 

Perhaps sitting in a cave and waiting to be roasted alive wasn’t exactly the best plan.

“Hey, Bluebeard,” Clay called out. 

“I just thought of something.”

Bluebeard huffed angrily, a puff of smoke rising out of the dragon’s mouth. 

Clay winced, worried that anything he might say could push the dragon over the edge.

“I know you’re all into your new firepower, but think about it: If you keep breathing fire into this cave, I’ll die in here, and you’ll never be able to get me out and eat me.”

Bluebeard made an incredulous sound.

What makes you think I want to eat you? 

Maybe I just want to kill you.

“Oh, well, then…” Clay stumbled, trying desperately to think of another argument. 

“Then maybe you should go find something else to eat now? I mean, you must be hungry. And you need energy to kill me, right?”

The cave shook again, but when Clay peered out the entrance, he saw that it was because Bluebeard had taken an emphatic seat right in front of it. 

Clay was now stuck inside a dark cave, smelling the lasting effects of dragon breath and staring out at a dragon’s immense butt.

No longer much concerned with their human prisoner, the other dragons lounged by the lake’s shore, intermittently practicing their fire-breathing technique. 

Rover took to this new talent with fervor, blasting a spray of white-hot flame through the air along the brush at the edge of the lake. 

Snowflake, meanwhile, breathed fire as lazily as if blowing smoke rings.

Clay watched them disconsolately. 

To think that only moments earlier he’d been trying to befriend the dragons—he’d even imagined that he would fly away on a dragon’s back! 

Now he couldn’t imagine any scenario in which they would let him out of the cave alive. 

Soon the world would have no more to remember him by than a pile of scorched bones.

All this time, the sun continued creeping westward across the sky. 

The dragons’ shadows grew long and thin, and Clay’s worries multiplied. 

He thought guiltily of Cass and Satya. 

Where was Cass now?

Was she waiting for him by the clearing? 

What would Satya do when she turned off the dome and didn’t detect any of the dragons leaving?

He tried creating a distraction by tossing out a large stick he found inside the cave. 

But Bluebeard torched the stick before it hit the ground—target practice.

Clay felt around in his pocket for the exploding gum Pablo had given him, but decided that an explosion would only serve to further infuriate the dragons.

As for trying to reason with the beasts, so far he’d gotten exactly nowhere, and every wasted second brought him closer to the meeting time.

When the sun dipped below the edge of the crater’s rim, Clay was in a full-blown panic. 

He stared at the hands on his watch as they got closer and closer to 8:25. 

Tick tick tick. 

Soon his flight window would be closed. 

The best thing he could hope for at this point was to be caught by the Midnight Sun. 

At least they might save him from the dragons.

Eight twenty-five. 

He peered out into the night as if he might see Satya or Cass coming to save him, but how would they even know where he was?

And then something happened—a strange reaction from the dragons outside the cave entrance. 

Snowflake’s head was shaking back and forth. 

The dragon was fussing with its collar again, but tentatively, as if confused. 

Carefully, the dragon contorted its body enough to touch the collar with a talon.

Rover’s head was shaking as well. 

The big dopey dragon looked questioningly at Bluebeard, but Bluebeard was scratching, too, and looked lost in thought.

Finally, Bluebeard eyed Snowflake and barked at the smaller dragon, unmistakably giving an order.

Snowflake remained sitting. 

No way, Snowflake seemed to say. 

Not doing that again.

Bluebeard nodded insistently, looking upward. 

It was clear to Clay that Bluebeard was telling Snowflake to fly.

They must realize the dome was shut off, he thought excitedly. 

Would they leave?

Snowflake didn’t make a move.

Bluebeard grew impatient and let out a fiery roar. 

FLY! 

Snowflake growled a bit but finally stood up and, with a single flap of wings, launched into the air.

Snowflake flew up, and up, and up—to a point about as high as the helicopter had been on Clay’s tour of the crater—and then tentatively poked at the sky with the tip of a wing. 

Apparently hitting no barrier, the dragon joyfully spread its wings, dove briefly, then rose again in triumph.

Watching in disbelief, Rover jumped clumsily into the air and, flapping wildly, started flying loops around Snowflake.

Snowflake swooped down over Bluebeard’s head, seemingly expecting Bluebeard to join them. 

We can fly anywhere we want! 

This is our chance! 

Clay could feel Snowflake saying. 

The dragon waited, but Bluebeard didn’t make a move. 

Come on, Snowflake seemed to urge. 

Let’s move!

We will, Bluebeard said ominously. 

But first we eat.

The dragon spread its enormous wings and took off, rising up into the dark sky and turning to head toward the castle. 

Snowflake and Rover followed, thinking hungry thoughts.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

THE GUM IN CLAY’S MOUTH

When the sun dipped low in the sky and the first few twinkling stars were visible, Satya stood in the control tower, watching the seconds tick away on her wristwatch. 

She’d managed to finagle quite a distraction: After making sure that all the doors and windows in the nursery were closed so that the little dragons couldn’t escape, she’d released them from their cages. 

At this very moment, Hero was flying through the nursery, wreaking havoc and taunting the dragons, who would be trying to get to the open coolers full of prime red meat. 

Every security guard at the Keep would be called in, as would her father.

Satya scanned the clearing again and again, but to no avail. 

She’d been standing in the tower for almost thirty minutes without seeing any sign of Clay or Cass—or of a dragon. 

But a plan was a plan, and at 8:25 on the nose, Satya took a deep breath and turned the key in the dome’s master lock. 

She pointed her finger at the big red button, then pressed down without allowing herself another second of hesitation.

The dome died with a strange electric hiss, as if it were deflating. 

Satya hadn’t noticed how pervasive the sound of the dome had been until it was gone. 

Suddenly, the sounds of dusk—the buzzing of insects, the cooing of hunting birds, and the whispering flaps of bats’ wings—seemed as loud as fireworks.

Come on, Clay, she thought. 

Come on. 

The seconds on her watch ticked on and on, but still there was no sign of a large winged creature escaping with two puny humans on its back—not in the dark jungle depths, not in the starry night sky.

Thirty seconds…

Forty-five seconds…

A minute.

The time Satya had promised had come and gone. 

Her heart sank. 

Clay must have failed to mount a dragon; she only hoped he had survived the attempt.

Just as Satya’s finger hovered over the button, preparing to turn the dome back on, a large figure flew into the night sky, its blue-black body a shifting shadow in the dark. 

Bluebeard. 

Satya’s heart lifted—Clay! 

He made it!—until the dragon opened its mouth and… ROAWRRRR!!!  

Unlike the other times Satya had seen a dragon roar, this roar was accompanied by a blinding streak of fire. 

Her jaw dropped almost as fast as her stomach. 

Clay had been right; dragons could breathe fire after all. 

As if that wasn’t terrifying enough, the white-hot exhalation lit up the night long enough for Satya to be sure of two things: Bluebeard was loose, and there was nobody on the dragon’s back.

“Oh no.”

As she watched, aghast, Bluebeard slowed and started circling above like some monstrous bird of prey.

Shaking with fear and adrenaline, Satya tapped the dome button, about to turn the power back on, but then she realized Bluebeard was already well outside the boundary. 

If she turned the dome on now, it would actually repel the dragon, rather than keeping Bluebeard enclosed.

“Oh no. Oh no. Oh no.”

Bluebeard was soon joined by the two other dragons. 

They circled one another, looking as though they were discussing their plan of attack. 

Or at least two of them looked that way. 

Rover was doing cartwheels in midair, like a frolicking puppy who happened to have wings and to be the size of a whale.

Suddenly, Bluebeard’s head spun in Satya’s direction. 

The dragon was too far away for her to really see its face; nonetheless, Bluebeard seemed to her to be looking through the dusky night, right into her eyes.

Then, with a single stroke of wings, Bluebeard was off like a shot—diving straight toward the tower.

At the same second, the hatch door flung open with a bang, and Satya screamed. 

She spun around and saw Clay, his feet still on the ladder, sticking his head through the hatch.

“C’mon!” he shouted, breathing heavily. 

“We’ve gotta run!”

Clay grabbed Satya’s hand and dragged her toward the hatch. 

“There’s no time to climb down. Slide, like this—”

He grasped the side of the ladder and started sliding down as if it were a fireman’s pole. 

She followed close behind.

“Faster!”

They were descending quickly, but not quickly enough. 

Bluebeard was closing in. 

In a second they would be within range of the dragon’s breath.

Another second and they would be within range of the dragon’s teeth.

They were still a dozen feet off the ground, but Satya and Clay looked at each other, both thinking the same thing: “JUMP!!!” “JUMP!!!”

With not a moment to spare, they dropped to the ground and rolled in the dirt. 

Scrambling to get away, they looked back just before Bluebeard unleashed a fireball at the tower. 

The dragon hung in the air, blasting the tower again and again, until the scaffolding buckled and the structure burned to the ground. 

Then, just as quickly as the dragon had turned on Satya, it was off—in the direction of the castle.

“Well,” Clay wheezed, “I guess the dome is down for good. And now the collars on the dragons are useless.”

“Actually, there’s a backup,” Satya said, panting. “But it’ll take them a while to boot it up.”

“Where’s Cass?” asked Clay.

“I was going to ask you the same thing.”

“You think she’s still with Schrödinger?”

“Unless the dragons got her.”

“Or the Midnight Sun…”

Clay and Satya sprinted along the dark path to the castle and tents. 

In the distance, they could hear the sounds of crackling flames and people shouting, and above it all, the roars of dragons.

Clay hoped that Cass and Schrödinger were somewhere safe. 

In hindsight, splitting up had been a very bad idea.

All of it had been a very bad idea.

The path wound around the laboratory building, which miraculously was still standing. 

They rounded the corner, approaching the bridge that separated the lab from the castle. 

Both Clay and Satya stopped in their tracks at a loud crash.

The AUTHORIZED VISITORS ONLY sign that marked the entrance to the Keep hadn’t escaped the dragon’s wrath. 

It had collapsed onto the bridge in a heap of burning rubble, blocking the path entirely. 

Clay was about to suggest that they walk under the bridge and take their chances wading through the shallow river, when he caught sight of a long green twitching tail. 

Snowflake was crouched beneath the bridge and, judging by the tail, was a little agitated.

“Great,” said Clay under his breath.

Then came an ominous vibration in the ground beneath them.

“Don’t look now, but there’s somebody behind us,” Satya whispered.

Clay gulped and glanced over his shoulder. 

Rover was approaching on foot, the dragon’s plodding steps rumbling the ground.

“Which way?” Satya asked.

Clay tried to think quickly. 

They couldn’t cross over the bridge because of the burning sign, nor could they run under it because of the dragon lurking there like an oversized troll. 

But they had to cross somehow, and soon, or else be trampled by the even bigger dragon that was approaching from behind.

What to do? 

The simplest thing would be to push the burning sign aside, but it was too big and the flames too hot.

Wait—the exploding gum! 

All he had to do was chew, throw the wad at the wreckage on the bridge, and two seconds later—kablam!—the way would be cleared for them. 

Unless the whole bridge collapsed. 

In which case, Snowflake would be forced to flee.

Anyway, it was worth a try.

Clay unwrapped the gum and stuck it in his mouth.

“Is now really the time to worry about fresh breath?” Satya asked, looking at him askance. 

Then her eyes widened like she’d just had an epiphany.

Clay pointed at his mouth and started to pantomime an explanation. 

If he stopped chewing, the gum would blow up right between his incisors.

Satya stopped him, grabbing his hands. 

“Wait—I think I know what you’re going to say,” she said. 

Her dark eyes were big and round.

There was no hint of her usual sarcasm.

Clay struggled to remember to keep chewing.

“We’re toast, right?” She squeezed his hand “And this is really cheesy, but… well, I don’t want to die before I ever get to kiss anyone.” 

Lifting herself up on tiptoe, Satya leaned in to give Clay a kiss.

Clay nearly choked on the gum. 

Of course, he was no expert in kissing, but he knew enough to know that chewing while a person is trying to kiss you is rude at best, and mortifying at worst. 

Especially when it’s that person’s very first kiss ever.

And, to be honest, your very first kiss, as well. 

But he couldn’t stop chewing or they’d both be blown to smithereens!

“Clay!” Satya pulled her head back and wiped her hand across her mouth. 

“What are you doing? Stop chewing already!”

Shaking his head vehemently, Clay put his hands on her shoulders and pushed her back.

“Jeez!” exclaimed Satya, insulted. 

“Sorry, forget I ever—”

Clay took the wad of gum out of his mouth and threw it on the flaming wreckage of the sign.

“Get down!” 

He pulled Satya to the ground by the arm, and they crouched with their backs to the bridge.

“Three… two… one…” he whispered. 

The explosion scattered the flaming pieces of the wooden sign, clearing a narrow path across the bridge.

Behind them, Rover roared and took off into the air.

Beneath the bridge, falling debris conked Snowflake between the eyes. 

The dragon swung woozily back and forth in the riverbed.

Satya looked at Clay in amazement. 

“Who are you—James Bond?”

Clay smiled. 

“Funny, that’s just what I said to Pablo when he gave me that gum.”

“Who?”

“Never mind—time to run!”

Clay jumped to his feet, dragging Satya after him. 

They bolted across the bridge, not daring to look back. 

Or below.

As Clay and Satya ran down the path toward the tents and the castle, they could see security guards sprinting back and forth in the distance. 

Air horns blasted around them.

Suddenly, Satya grabbed Clay’s wrist and pulled him behind a shrub.

“What is it?” Clay whispered, hoping he was going to have another chance to kiss her, though questioning the timing.

Satya pointed. 

Approaching one of the tents, without much stealth, was Rover. 

The dragon had taken off when they blew up the bridge, but hadn’t gone far. 

And now it had set its sights on something—or someone—in one of the tents.

Satya and Clay watched in horror as Rover lifted a claw and sliced through the tent like it was a soft cheese, revealing the sight of a scraggly gray-haired man standing at the ready, a ten-gallon hat firmly affixed to his head.

With a cry of “Yeehawww!,” Schrödinger launched himself at Rover, grabbing the dragon’s tail with all his strength.

And yet, as remarkable as it was to see an old cowboy attempt to ride a giant dragon, something inside the tent drew Clay’s attention away from the spectacle. 

There, behind Schrödinger’s desk, Cass was crouching low, trying her best to avoid becoming the dragon’s next meal.

CHAPTER NINETEEN

THE MAN WITH THE TEN-GALLON HATS

One hour earlier *

With so many security guards running all over the Keep looking for her, it had taken Cass a frustratingly long time to reach the tents, but as soon as she did, she could tell which one was Schrödinger’s: The array of ten-gallon hats hanging from the post in front was a dead giveaway.

She found the craggy old man at his desk, scribbling furiously on a stack of papers. 

Instead of the Midnight Sun’s traditional white gloves, he wore calfskin riding gloves, which were stained with dirt and ink. 

Yet another cowboy hat sat beside him.

“Excuse me,” Cass said, shutting the tent flap behind her. 

“Mr. Schrödinger?”

She had to repeat his name several times before he looked up, his eyes wild and unfocused.

“Schrödinger… Schrödinger… I know that name!” he said excitedly.

“It’s not yours, then?”

“What’s not mine?” 

He smiled broadly, lifting his huge mustache up at the ends. 

“Never mind, young lady. Whatever it is, take it. I have no use for material things anymore.”

“I was talking about the name. Schrödinger.”

“Schrödinger? Yes, I remember. He was a sheriff. Or was he that snake-oil doctor who sold me that worthless hemorrhoid cream?”

Cass tried a different tack. 

“What are you writing… sir?”

“Oh, this—?” 

He looked at the pages in front of him as though surprised to find them there. 

“Am I writing?”

He held up a page. 

Instead of writing, there was a line drawing of a great dragon with a large snowflake on its snout, its wings spread wide in flight. 

And in the corner of the page, Schrödinger had drawn a dark gash in the sky.

“That line again…” 

Cass muttered, her brow furrowed. 

“Mr. Schrödinger, did you go somewhere on one of the dragons? Is that why the Midnight Sun is breeding them—to get to this place?”

Schrödinger nodded. 

A light seemed to switch on behind his eyes. 

“So fast the dragons fly. Faster and faster. You ain’t seen nothing like it. And then… it stops… and there you are.… She thinks I want to go back, but I don’t.”

“You mean Ms. Mauvais thinks you want to go back?”

He stared at her, twisting his mustache. 

“Antoinette, yes.”

“Where? Where does she think you want to go back to?”

“The place where I am! That’s what the lady doesn’t understand. I’m still there.” 

Schrödinger shook his head, as though Ms.  Mauvais were being exceptionally thick. 

“I told her, I don’t want to go anywhere. I want to come back.”

“Come back where?”

“Here!” he said, exasperated.

Cass stepped closer, pressing her finger against the gash in the drawing. 

“This line in the sky—does it lead to the place where you were—I mean, where you are, Mr. Schrödinger?”

Schrödinger’s mustache twitched. 

“Schrödinger… Schrödinger… I know that name.… Cattle rustler, wasn’t he? Terrible man, but what a charmer…”

He scratched his head until his gaze landed on Cass. 

“Hello, young lady. Who are you?” he asked as though she had just arrived. 

“Can I get you some coffee? I make a mighty fine brew.” 

He looked around, confused. 

“Darn it! My campfire must have gone out.”

“That’s okay, I don’t need coffee, Mr. Schrödinger. Thanks.”

“Schrödinger! Now, there’s a name with a story.…”

“Please concentrate,” said Cass, putting her hand on his shoulder. 

“This place you’re talking about, this place where you are—does it have anything to do with this line?” 

Once again, Cass pointed to the line in the sky. 

“Does the line lead the way?”

But Schrödinger wouldn’t or couldn’t focus on anything in front of him.

Then, just as Cass was thinking she should run and meet Clay, the old cowboy at last seemed to understand what she was asking him.

“Oh, that line in the sky?” he said, as if she had only just mentioned it for the first time. 

“That’s what is left after a dragon flies there, of course. So fast the dragons fly.…”

Cass glanced at Schrödinger’s pocket watch, lying on his desk. 

The dome was going to be turned off in exactly one minute, but she was finally getting somewhere with Schrödinger—she couldn’t leave yet. 

She was on the verge of solving the mystery that had brought her to the Keep. 

“You mean the line is like a trace of the dragon’s flight?” she asked.

Schrödinger nodded vigorously. 

“A rip in the fabric.”

“The fabric?”

“The fabric between the sides.”

“What sides? Do you mean this side and…” She didn’t like to say it aloud, but he probably wouldn’t remember a word she said anyway. 

“Do you mean this side and the Other Side? Have you been to the Other Side?”

He didn’t answer. 

His eyes were starting to glaze again.

“That’s what this is all about, isn’t it?” 

Cass persisted. 

“The Midnight Sun wants the dragons to fly the members to the Other Side? They think going there will make them young again, don’t they?”

“They think it is the Fountain of Youth,” Schrödinger whispered.

“It is not.”

“What is it, then?” Cass asked urgently. 

“What’s on the Other Side, Mr. Schrödinger?”

Schrödinger sat up straight. 

“Schrödinger? Now, that rings a bell!”

“Yes, it’s a very familiar name, isn’t it?” said Cass, gritting her teeth. 

When was she going to learn not to say that name?

She pressed him several more times before admitting defeat.

Finally, she looked at Schrödinger’s pocket watch again. 

Fourteen minutes late. 

For his sake, she hoped Clay had left without her.

“Thank you, Mr. Schrödinger—you’ve been a lot of help.”

Before she left, she saw something behind Schrödinger’s scraggly-haired head: A shadow was growing against the canvas side of the tent.

“If I’m not mistaken,” he was saying, “that poor old sot Schrödinger landed in Truckee during the gold rush.…”

“Shh,” Cass hissed. 

“Mr. Schrödinger, look behind you!”

The shadow loomed ever larger and began to take shape. 

Long neck… jagged back… big talon-pronged wings…

“Never found much gold, did he?”

“Shush, please,” Cass pleaded, whispering.

Confused, Schrödinger turned around. 

A grin spread beneath his mustache. 

“Well, I’ll be—my pony is here!”

As the dragon’s shadow grew so large it darkened the interior of the tent, Schrödinger reached for his hat. 

“You’ll have to excuse me, ma’am—it’s time for me to go home,” he shouted gleefully, clicking his spurred heels together.

With a heart-stopping rrrrrrrip, the side of the tent sagged. 

A razor-sharp talon was cutting through the canvas, exposing Schrödinger and Cass to the outside, and to a row of shining dragon teeth.

It was the big gray dragon with the lolling tongue—Rover. 

The dragon’s eyes rolled around the shredded tent and then fixed on the two humans.

With most wild animals, as Cass knew better than anyone, the trick is to wave your arms and make yourself look as big as possible so that the animal leaves you alone.

But with something as big as this dragon, Cass thought, arm waving might seem more like a dinner invitation. 

Another approach was needed.

Cass was about to urge Schrödinger to stay absolutely still, when Schrödinger raised a hand, shouted, “Yeehaww!,” and leaped right for the dumbfounded dragon—Only to trip and land on the dragon’s tail.

CHAPTER TWENTY

THE DESTRUCTION OF THE CASTLE

About twelve yards away, Clay and Satya watched, aghast.

Clay wanted to run to Cass, but there was a gigantic dragon named Rover in the way, and a crazy man was holding on to the dragon’s tail like he was riding a bucking bronco.

“Giddyap!” Schrödinger shouted, now trying to pull himself onto the dragon’s back.

Roaring angrily, the dragon thrashed this way and that. 

Schrödinger’s legs flew into the air.

“Easy, boy!” he cried, sounding like he was having the time of his life. 

“Easy!”

The dragon thrashed around for a moment longer and then finally spread its wings and jumped into the air, throwing Schrödinger to the ground. 

The old cowboy bounced on his butt, clutching his back in pain.

“Ouch,” said Satya, wincing on Schrödinger’s behalf.

“C’mon, let’s go,” Clay said.

They ran to the torn-to-shreds tent, where Cass was standing in a posture that indicated she was very ready to run but very uncertain about which direction to take.

“You okay?” Clay asked her.

“Never better,” said Cass drily. 

“But I have to admit I’m having second thoughts about flying home on one of those things.”

“Don’t worry about it,” said Clay glumly.

“They’re not too hot on us riding them, either.”

Cass looked at him. 

“So no luck, huh?”

He shook his head.

“Let’s go find my dad,” Satya said. 

“He’ll know what to do.”

“I thought he worked for the Midnight Sun,” said Cass, furrowing her brow.

Satya furrowed her brow in response. 

“My dad works for the dragons.”

Sure he does, thought Clay. 

By putting blinders, and ropes, and electric choke collars on them. 

But he figured it wasn’t the time to argue.

“My dad and I have an emergency plan,” Satya explained as they started running toward the castle. 

“If something like this goes down, we’re supposed to meet by the fountain. He’ll be waiting there—I know it.”

“And I’m sure he’ll be just thrilled to see you harboring a pair of escaped convicts,” said Cass, with a wry smile.

The castle courtyard was flooded with people running helter-skelter: security guards, butlers, gardeners, cooking staff. 

Satya led Clay and Cass through the crowd, then stopped short and motioned urgently for them to back away.

Standing next to the fountain was not Vicente but Ms. Mauvais, looking as imperious and unruffled as ever. 

If there was a storm raging at the Keep, then Ms. Mauvais was the eye of the storm—the calm but deadly powerful center.

“Vicente! Somebody get me Vicente!” she commanded. 

“Satya! Where is your father?”

“Uh, I’ll go get him!” Satya shouted nervously.

Without waiting to hear more, Satya motioned to the others. 

They snuck around the periphery of the courtyard, out of sight of Ms. Mauvais, then ran up the steps and into the castle. 

“He’s probably in the emergency control booth.” 

She pointed to the Ryū Room. 

“Through there—c’mon!”

They sprinted across the marble foyer, toward the Ryū Room. 

But as they passed the glass case containing DragonSlayer, Clay stopped and turned, skidding briefly on the marble. 

Unbidden, the ridiculous image of Kwan with a butter knife between his teeth had come into Clay’s mind.

Always handy to have a weapon on you, right?

“Wait for me!” he shouted at Cass and Satya, and he raced back across the room to the suit of armor that stood by the entrance.

“Sorry, gotta borrow this,” he muttered. 

He grasped the double-sided ax held in the hollow knight’s metal hand and pulled. * 

The armor collapsed to the floor, loud clangs lost in the general din. 

Clay swung the ax, almost dropping it (it was quite heavy). 

Then he ran lopsidedly back to the display case.

The sword inside looked like it hadn’t been touched since King Arthur’s time. 

But of course it had been touched, and very recently, too—not to slay dragons but to create them with the ancient blood caked on the blade.

Reason enough to take the sword, Clay thought. 

Without worrying about who was watching, he raised the ax high in the air, then let it fall. 

The glass shattered and an alarm went off—yet more noise added to the cacophony.

The sword felt better in his hand than the ax did, which is mostly to say it wasn’t quite as heavy. 

Clay slashed experimentally through the air once in each direction. 

He hated the thought that the sword had killed dragons; nonetheless, wielding it was almost, well, fun—or would have been in other circumstances.

“Hey, easy with that, Sir Lancelot!” said Cass. 

“At least give me the ax if you’re gonna be swinging that sword around.”

As she took the ax from him, there was a huge thundering BOOM! that made them all cry out. 

The building shook as if there’d been an earthquake.

“In there!” Cass shouted. 

All three of them lunged for the Ryū Room as another BOOM! rocked the castle.

The Wandsworths were at their table near the bar, playing cards as if there were nothing untoward going on. 

Two terrified-looking staff members sat opposite them. 

As one made to get up, Mrs. Wandsworth put her hand on his.

“Tut, tut. You know nobody moves until the game is done.”

Mr. Wandsworth nodded in agreement, then helped himself to a generous pour of mead from the big keg sitting on the bar.

A gigantic ROAR nearly split everyone’s ears.

Clay, Satya, and Cass dove under the closest cocktail table.

Around them, priceless ceramic vases started shattering one by one, as if they were being shot by a sniper. 

Artwork fell from the walls. 

Bottles toppled from the bar to the floor, until the bar itself crumpled.

Finally, the shaking stopped. 

Clay opened one eye, then the other. 

Cass and Satya were looking around, too.

Just in time to see a column buckle and an entire wall crumble. 

The room was literally collapsing around them.

“What happened?” Satya whispered.

“It’s like a bomb went off,” said Clay.

Cass crawled out from under the table. 

“Sturdy little thing, this table.”

Clay and Satya crawled out after Cass and stood up in the rubble. 

Half of the castle was gone.  

Where the roof had fallen in, they could see a starry sky.

Not far away, the Wandsworths and their bridge partners were still seated at their table, but they were now covered with dust and plaster.

“That was the best hand I’ve had in ninety years!” 

Mrs. Wandsworth complained. 

“What do you mean, the game is forfeit?!”

“Maybe you’d prefer to have a dragon as a partner,” said her husband, pointing.

Everyone turned and stared. 

Where the marble foyer used to be, Rover was now sitting on a pair of massive hind legs, tongue lolling out, as usual.

The dragon looked at them hungrily. 

If only I had some of that honeycomb now, Clay thought.

“The mead!” he shouted to the Wandsworths. 

“Give the dragon some mead.”

“What? We will do no such thing,” said Mrs. Wandsworth, offended. 

“Do you know what happened to my shih tzus when they got into the champagne?”

But Clay wasn’t paying attention; he had grabbed the keg of mead himself and was now dropping it in front of Rover—not too close, of course, but close enough.

“Here, Rover. You’ll like this; it’s made with honey.”

While Rover sniffed curiously, Clay unscrewed the lid of the keg, leaving what for the dragon would be a smallish bowl of mead. 

Then he hopped away.

Seconds later, the dragon was happily lapping up the mead, as predicted. 

But all too soon the keg was empty.

Rover picked it up and started drunkenly shaking it, hoping for more.

As Clay tried to think of other ways to divert the dragon’s attention, a shadow crossed over the moon and Rover pulled up short.

Rooooooooooaaaaaaawrrrr!!!

It was Rover’s black-and-blue boss, Bluebeard. 

Responding to some secret signal, Rover started backing away out of the ruins of the castle and into the courtyard.

With apparent difficulty, the dragon then spread its wings and jumped into the air, bumping into the dragon fountain on the way, but eventually catching flight.

For a moment all was quiet. 

Leaving the Wandsworths and their hapless bridge partners behind, Clay, Cass, and Satya gingerly picked their way through the rubble.

The moonlit courtyard appeared to be empty save for the bronze dragons in the fountain, silhouetted against the purple evening sky. 

Had Bluebeard gone somewhere else? 

Is that why Rover had been called away?

They stepped cautiously into the courtyard and looked around. 

Then all three screamed at once.

“Run!”

Bluebeard had not gone away but was merely circling above, waiting to strike. 

And now the dragon was diving straight for them.

They headed to the jungle for cover, but they weren’t fast enough.

“Aaaayyh!” Cass screamed. 

A wing talon ripped her sleeve off as Bluebeard flew past her.

“Are you okay?” Clay shouted.

“Yes!” Cass said, but Clay could see blood on her arm.

“Where’s Satya?” she asked.

They looked around. 

The dragon had landed in front of the fountain—separating them from Satya. 

She was backed up against one of the castle’s few remaining walls.

Bluebeard blew a puff of smoke in Satya’s face, toying with her.

Not fully aware of what he was doing, Clay raised DragonSlayer over his head and barreled toward Bluebeard.

“Get away from her, or deal with this!” he yelled, with what you might fairly call foolish courage.

Bluebeard’s neck craned around, and the dragon looked at Clay. 

For a moment it seemed like Clay’s words were sinking in. 

Was it possible that the huge beast was afraid of the little sword? 

But then Bluebeard let out a scornful roar and swung at Clay. 

Just in time, Clay squatted down, out of the way, while holding DragonSlayer aloft with both hands.

Bluebeard’s shriek was bloodcurdling.

The dragon thrashed around in pain, then gave another cry and fell on its side, shuddering.

Clay watched in surprise. 

Had he sliced into Bluebeard’s belly without realizing it? 

He examined the blade in his hands; there was no blood.

Then Satya pointed—

“I told you he would come.”

Behind Bluebeard stood Vicente, holding a familiar weapon. 

Clay glanced back at the dragon. 

A red feather—the end of a tranquilizer dart—poked out of the side of Bluebeard’s belly where the scales were smooth and thin.

“Satya!” Vicente yelled. 

Satya took off for her father, hugging him tightly.

“That horrid scientist told me they couldn’t breathe fire!” 

Ms. Mauvais appeared out of nowhere, lit by the glow of the fountain, shouting at no one in particular. 

“I specifically requested nonflammable dragons!” 

For the first time, a smudge appeared on her perfect face, and there was even a little rip in her otherwise immaculate dress.

Suddenly, her focus shifted from the unconscious dragon lying on the ground to the other humans in the courtyard.

“Well, don’t just stand there,” she said to Vicente. 

“Shoot them, too!”

Vicente glared at her. 

“Satya is my daughter!”

“Cassandra and the boy, then,” responded Ms. Mauvais impatiently.

“It’s just a tranquilizer gun—there’s no need for melodrama!”

“I’m out of darts.” 

Vicente held up the gun as if demonstrating that it was empty.

“Do I have to do everything myself? Don’t let them go.” 

Scowling, Ms. Mauvais quickly disappeared into the ruins.

“You’re not really out of darts, are you, Dad?” asked Satya.

Clay looked from Bluebeard to Vicente. 

“Well, I guess you showed Bluebeard who was boss after all.”

“No, it was just a lucky shot,” said Vicente.

“We all could have been killed easily. Looks like you were right about the fire-breathing. And maybe about the way I’ve been training them, as well.”

Clay didn’t say anything. 

He figured it must be hard for a guy like Vicente to admit he was wrong, and Clay didn’t want to push it.

“I’m going to see about getting the dome operational again—you may not like those collars, but right now they’re our only hope,” said Vicente. 

“You guys stay out of sight.”

As her father ran off, Satya noticed Cass’s arm. 

It was covered in blood. 

“What happened? Do we need to do something with that?”

“Probably—I’m losing a lot of blood,” said Cass, her face very pale. 

Her voice was calm and matter-of-fact, but it was obvious that she was in a great deal of pain.

“Okay,” said Clay, trying hard to remain as calm as Cass was. 

“What do we do?”

“Can one of you rip off my other sleeve for me?”

Methodically, Cass talked her companions through the making of a tourniquet.

They were just about finished when they heard Ms.  Mauvais’s voice: “Don’t move.”

She had returned, this time with Gyorg. 

He was pointing a gun at them. 

Not a tranquilizer gun. 

A machine gun.

Looking like a warrior with her sleeveless shirt and bloody armband, Cass stepped in front of Clay and Satya and addressed her age-old adversary, Antoinette Mauvais.

“Go ahead, kill us. You’ve killed so many—what are a few more?” Cass said, her voice surprisingly strong. 

“But you’ll never win. You know that, right? Even if you get to the Other Side. Because the one place you can really live forever is the one place where you’ll never find a home.”

“Oh, where is that?” said Ms.  Mauvais carelessly.

“In someone else’s heart.”

For a moment Ms. Mauvais just stared at her, and it almost seemed as though Cass’s words had struck a nerve, but the woman quickly recovered. 

“How long have you been waiting to give that little greeting card of a speech? Gyorg, get rid of them. For good this time.”

Her cold tinkling laugh was soon lost in a deafening ROARRRRR!

Another dragon was entering the fray, but this roar was new and unfamiliar. 

Unfamiliar to everyone except Clay, that is.

He would have known that roar anywhere.

Bearing down on them, making right for the courtyard in front of the crumbling castle, was Ariella.

FROM Secrets of the Occulta Draco; or, The Memoirs of a Dragon Tamer

We humans are pathetic creatures. 

Sniveling crybabies, every one of us.

Other species are weaned in months, at most a few years; we cling to our parents all the way into our teens, and sometimes even longer.

Dragons, though they live to a much older age than we do, grow up much faster. 

They are extremely independent creatures. 

Even in birth. 

Neither male nor female, they reproduce alone. 

A dragon simply lays an egg, and once laid, the egg does not need to be sat upon or cared for in any way.

Dragons do not have the same ideas about parenthood and family that we do. 

When a dragon hatches, it may wander around on its own for days, perfectly content. 

And yet an adult dragon would never leave a baby dragon entirely to its own devices. 

The young are considered a group responsibility, and baby dragons are schooled in the Dragon Way by older, mentor dragons.

The Dragon Way is something like a language and something like a moral code, but mainly it is something we cannot understand because we are not dragons. 

In dragon communities, all dragons are equal; there are no rulers. 

The Dragon Way makes this kind of egalitarian society possible. 

A dragon who does not follow the Dragon Way is referred to as a Lost One and is an object of scorn and pity for other dragons.

Of course, since humans do not follow the Dragon Way, we also are objects of scorn and pity.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

THE ARRIVAL OF ARIELLA

Clay never saw Ms. Mauvais slip away with Gyorg, and he didn’t care where they’d gone. 

For the moment, even Cass and Satya were invisible to him. 

He only had eyes for the gentle—or gentle-ish—giant that was now landing in front of them. 

Never in his life had he been so grateful to see another living creature, human, dragon, or otherwise.

He ran up to Ariella, ready to throw his arms around the dragon’s neck. 

Yet something in Ariella’s demeanor stopped him from taking the liberty.

He settled for a smile and an enthusiastic hand wave; you couldn’t shake hands with a dragon, after all.

“Hey, Ariella,” he said awkwardly.

“Thanks, uh, for coming.”

There was no return greeting, only silence. 

Ariella’s coloring, which was naturally a pale gray, tended to change along with the dragon’s mood and environment. 

At the moment, it looked like a dark storm cloud was passing over the dragon, even though the sky above was clear.

This was not the reunion Clay had imagined.

His leg started to jiggle with anxiety. 

Did Ariella not remember him? 

Had Ariella not come to save him?

Ariella looked from Clay to the inert dragon lying on the ground. 

Bluebeard’s eyes were closed, but an expression of outrage was frozen on the dragon’s face.

Who did this?

Clay felt Ariella’s fury. 

It was a deep dragon anger.

Did a human do this?

Desperately, Clay tried to think of a way to respond. 

Yes, but the dragon deserved it? 

Yes, but the dragon is only unconscious, not dead?

Before Clay could say anything aloud, there was a low rumbling growl that seemed to shake the ground.

Bluebeard was waking up.

Clay exchanged glances with Cass and Satya. 

Uh-oh. 

They each took a step back.

Groggily, Bluebeard opened an eye and started to stretch.

Then all the dark steely scales on the dragon’s back seemed to rise at once, like hackles on a rooster: Bluebeard had noticed Ariella. * 

With a quick shake, the no-longer-sleepy dragon pushed itself to its feet.

Seeing Bluebeard waken, Ariella made a low sonorous sound, almost like a whale call, that Clay sensed meant something like Hail, fellow dragon. 

And then the old dragon bent its neck, lowering its head almost all the way to the ground, in what was unmistakably a gesture of courtesy and respect, though not at all of submission.

Growling, Bluebeard regarded the newcomer suspiciously. 

Why does this big interloper look so much like me? 

Bluebeard’s eyes seemed to say. 

And what are they getting at with this bowing business? 

It must be a trap.

Then, with no warning but a snarl, Bluebeard pounced—taking advantage of Ariella’s posture to go straight for Ariella’s neck.

“No!” Clay cried.

If you’ve ever watched another dog attack yours, then you know a little bit how Clay felt.

(Not that a dragon is anything like a dog! And not that Ariella belonged to Clay! But… oh, just forget I made the comparison.)

Ariella was taken by surprise but was strong and fast enough to throw off Bluebeard before the attacker’s teeth penetrated the scales on Ariella’s neck.

Once free, Ariella barked at Bluebeard—a fast and furious reprimand—then blew a warning plume of fire into the sky. 

To Clay, the meaning was clear: Ariella was giving the ornery young dragon a chance to apologize to an elder, and quickly. 

If not, it would be war.

Bluebeard hissed in response. 

No apologies for this dragon.

Never taking its eyes off Ariella, the mean, unrepentant dragon whipped its tail in the air, making a loud crack. 

Then, dark wings flapping, Bluebeard lifted off the ground and hovered low over the courtyard, baiting Ariella to follow.

Ariella just watched. 

The seconds ticked by.

Growing impatient, Bluebeard screeched threats to Ariella, then finally unleashed a long rope of fire. 

Ariella jumped out of the way, blocking the fire with the wave of a wing. 

Clay, Satya, and Cass huddled under the one small overhang that remained amid the castle ruins.

“What do I do?” asked Clay, stricken. 

“I can’t just let—”

Suddenly, Bluebeard dropped from the air; at the very same time, Ariella reared up, talons flashing. 

For a moment, they both stood on their hind legs, eyes wild. 

They looked much like the two bronze dragons standing in the fountain behind them.

Ariella roared, a loud, bellowing roar, and then attacked, swiping Bluebeard’s neck with a long, sharp talon and then sweeping Bluebeard’s legs with the full weight of a twelve-foot-long tail. 

Bluebeard stumbled but quickly stood up again, spitting with fury. 

The two dragons bared their teeth at each other, then joined in movements so quick the dragons became a blur. 

One second they were in the air, flying at each other. 

The next second they were on the ground, wrestling.

For a while they appeared evenly matched: Ariella’s size and experience versus Bluebeard’s energy and youth. 

But there was something that Bluebeard had that Ariella lacked: the instinct to kill. 

When it seemed they might fight forever, Bluebeard let out a roar and sent a fireball bigger than any Clay had ever seen, directly at Ariella’s chest. 

The older dragon dodged as best it could, but a shoulder and part of a wing caught the full force of the flame.

Ariella staggered backward in pain.

“Ariella!” Clay shouted, panic-stricken. 

“Are you okay?”

Clay raised DragonSlayer in the air, but before he could even consider using it, Ariella rebuked him.

Stay away! 

You are never to strike a dragon, even one who would hurt us.

Clay looked back at Satya, but she was looking up, preoccupied with something in the sky. 

She put two fingers in her mouth and let out a shrill whistle.

Suddenly, something was spiraling toward them. 

Another dragon?

No, too small.

Before anybody could tell what was happening, a certain gray falcon had dive-bombed into the dragon fight and was flying straight for Bluebeard’s eye.

Clay cheered. 

“Go, Hero!”

Confused and infuriated, Bluebeard thrashed this way and that, trying to bat the falcon away. 

Undaunted, Hero pecked and pecked at the screaming dragon.

Ariella watched from a safe distance. 

(A human was not allowed to attack a dragon, but a bird—this, it seemed, Ariella would allow.)

Finally, Hero let out a victorious squawk and flew high into the air, leaving Bluebeard with a bloody mess where a big yellow eye had been. 

The half-blind dragon continued to spin around in pain, seemingly afraid that the falcon would return at any second.

For one harrowing moment, Bluebeard’s good eye found Clay, and it looked as though the dragon might take out its rage on this easy human target, but Ariella immediately stepped in front of Bluebeard and growled a warning.

Screeching furiously, Bluebeard flew off into the night—like a bitter one-eyed pirate setting out to sea.

We must go.

Ariella lay low on the ground, so the dragon’s human passengers could climb on more easily. 

Still, Cass winced with pain as Clay and Satya helped her onto Ariella’s back. 

How was it that something could be so slippery and so spiky at once?

“You need to get her home right away,” said Satya, after Cass was securely in place and they’d jumped down to the ground.

Clay looked back up at Cass, struggling valiantly to sit upright.

Beneath the smears of blood, her arm was turning a strange yellowish color.

Satya was right. 

Cass needed medical attention as soon as possible.

“What about you? What about the baby dragons? What about—” 

Clay gestured helplessly. 

“I can’t just leave.”

“You have to.”

Before she could respond, Clay was startled by a crackling in his ear: “Clay, are you there?”

“Uh—” It was Leira. 

The hat was working again.

“Where’ve you been?! Never mind. Guess what—Ariella came back! And we all played charades and drew a map to show where you were, and now—”

“I know. Ariella’s here. Cass, too. But she’s hurt. Make sure Nurse Cora is ready. Sorry, gotta go—”

“Wait—”

Clay pulled off his hat and looked at Satya. 

“Come with us,” he said urgently.

“I can’t.”

“Look around. You can’t stay here.”

As he spoke, Hero returned and landed on Satya’s shoulder.

“See, I’ll be fine. I’ve got Hero. And my dad. Now go. Before Ms. Mauvais sees you.”

“I’m coming back,” said Clay, reluctant to leave her side.

“No, you aren’t.”

“Will you kiss me when I do?” he blurted, then reddened.

Satya laughed, reddening as well. 

“Sure.”

Clay grinned.

“Then I definitely am coming back.”

Feeling much better than he had in a long time, Clay picked up his sword and jumped easily onto the dragon’s back. 

Well, almost. 

He wound up with his feet dangling down the dragon’s side. 

Trying to keep a straight face, Satya gave him a push, and he swung his leg up and over, taking a seat in front of Cass.

He didn’t need to tell Cass to hold on tight.

The minute Ariella unfurled those massive wings, flapping up into the sky, Cass’s good hand was digging into Clay’s shoulder.

They lifted up, and instantly the night became quieter and cooler, the stars brighter. 

Tentatively, Clay stroked Ariella’s back. 

He was unsure whether the dragon would appreciate, or even notice, his small human hand, but he felt the need to make contact.

When Clay had last seen Ariella, the dragon had recently molted, and its skin was smooth and sleek. 

In the year since, the scales had become rougher, careworn.  

Clay could see various lines and scars crisscrossing the dragon’s back. 

Where did the lines come from? 

What had Ariella been doing? 

He wanted to know, but it was not the right time to ask. 

He was certain that Ms. Mauvais would not let them go so easily. 

At any second he expected to see Gyorg piloting a helicopter behind them, the chopper’s missiles firing—straight at Ariella’s rear end.

He was right: They were being pursued. 

But not by a helicopter.

Cass lifted her head. 

“Oh no—behind us!” she rasped.

Screeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeech!

A bright green dragon was streaking through the sky, directly toward them. 

It was Snowflake, apparently recovered from being hit on the head, and now chasing after them—under Bluebeard’s orders, no doubt.

That dragon—another Lost One?

Ariella asked.

“Lost?” repeated Clay nervously.

A dragon who does not follow the ways of a dragon.

“Yes, another Lost One. Sorry.” 

He hoped Ariella wouldn’t choose this moment to try to school Snowflake in the finer points of proper dragon etiquette.

Very well.

The determined dragon leaned forward, flapping its wings with tremendous force, then holding them tight against its sides, picking up speed. 

Still, Ariella had been wounded in the fight with Bluebeard, and Snowflake covered the distance between them with shocking velocity.

“Hurry!” Clay urged.

Ariella responded with something that Clay couldn’t totally understand, but he guessed it was probably some dragon form of swearing. *

Breathing heavily, Ariella flew a little faster, but Snowflake kept gaining. 

By then Snowflake was almost upon them. 

Smelling victory, the green dragon stretched out its neck and opened its jaws, revealing several rows of sharp teeth. 

Clay was afraid Snowflake was about to bite down on Ariella’s tail, when he was startled by a sudden crackle, followed by a loud buzzing.

“What’s happening?” asked Cass, roused by the noise.

Just as they came level with the crater’s rim, Snowflake gave a strangled roar and stopped abruptly, swatting at the air. 

Confused, the dragon fell backward for a second before regaining equilibrium and flying back toward them at double speed—only to stop again, screaming with fury.

“It’s Snowflake’s collar!” Clay yelled. 

“I think the backup power finally kicked in! Vicente’s calling the dragons back.”

Sure enough, as Ariella soared farther and farther from the Keep, Snowflake spiraled downward until once again trapped inside the dome, like a flying goldfish in a giant bowl.

It looked, at last, like they were safe.

Clay turned around to share the moment with Cass, but her eyes were closed and her head drooping. 

Alarmed, he put his hand on her good wrist. 

She still had a pulse; she’d only fallen asleep.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

THE RETURN TO EARTH RANCH

The flight from the Keep to Earth Ranch was much shorter on Ariella’s back than in Owen’s seaplane—much, much shorter. 

The dragon didn’t necessarily fly faster than the plane—not in terms of actual, measurable speed, anyway. 

Instead, there seemed to be a kind of supernatural teleportation at work, so subtle that Clay didn’t even notice when it was happening. 

He would blink, and suddenly he’d have traveled a hundred miles farther than he’d thought.

So it was unexpected, but expectedly unexpected, when Price Island suddenly appeared, a puffy gray mass on the horizon.

Seconds later they burst through the clouds of vog, and Clay could see the distinctive profile of Nose Peak. 

Two figures were straddling the topmost rock, staring at the sky, just as Clay had done on so many mornings. 

They waved wildly. 

Clay didn’t have to see their faces to recognize Leira and Brett. 

Leira raised her conch-shell communication device to her lips and blew it three times like a trumpet. 

It blared painfully in Clay’s ear but also echoed around the island, announcing their arrival. 

“Looks like they’re expecting us!” he said, his ears ringing.

He looked back at Cass, whose eyes were partway open. 

She smiled briefly before passing out again.

As soon as they landed, Cass was rushed to the infirmary, where her arm was re-bandaged and she was given one of Nurse Cora’s mysterious transfusions.

Cass would live, the nurse said. 

Her arm—that was an open question. 

It had become infected, and there was a chance they would have to amputate. 

Cass took the news stoically, as if she’d always expected to lose a limb one day or another.

Nurse Cora insisted she rest; Cass insisted she go to the all-camp meeting.

It was just after dawn. 

Awakened by the blowing of the conch shell, if not by the thunderous arrival of a thirty-foot-long dragon, campers had stumbled out of their cabins and over to the geodesic dome, rubbing sleep from their eyes. 

And now Clay was being overwhelmed with people patting him on the back, including a very relieved Owen, and gawking at Ariella, who was sitting claws forward, like a sphinx, next to the dome.

Jonah shook his head. 

“I’ll never go to the toilet again without thinking of that dragon.”

Clay looked at him strangely.

“What?”

Before Jonah could explain, Kwan grabbed Clay’s arm. 

“Wait, are you carrying a sword?”

Pablo shook his head in exaggerated amazement. 

“You give a guy an exploding gumball, and the next thing you know he’s a full-on soldier.”

“That’s full-on knight to you,” said Clay, equal parts proud and abashed. 

“This isn’t just any sword; it’s DragonSlayer.”

Kwan laughed. 

“Okay, so you’re doing some kind of fantasy cosplay now?”

The camp’s geodesic dome was about thirty-five feet in diameter—an open grid of steel like you might see being used as a climbing structure at a grade school, only bigger. 

A few holdouts perched themselves on top of the dome, but most of the campers and staff gathered underneath, around a pile of logs—an unlit campfire. 

Just outside the circle of campers, Cass sat on a rock, conferring with Owen and Buzz and Mr. B.

“Hey—where’s Flint?” said Pablo, looking around. 

“This is when he usually lights the fire with a snap, the show-off.”

Clay tensed, hearing Flint’s name. 

“We don’t need that guy.” 

Except to give me back the Occulta Draco, he thought. 

He turned to Ariella. 

“Hey, could you…?”

The dragon looked wearily at Clay as if to say, Are you really making me do this? 

Then the dragon leaned over the dome and sent a burst of fire right onto the waiting logs. 

The campfire crackled, and the other campers broke into applause.

“Thanks,” said Clay, suddenly wishing Flint had been there after all, to witness the moment.

Mr. B clapped to get everyone’s attention, then rested a hand on Cass’s shoulder. 

“Some of you know Cassandra here, a longtime warrior for our side, who now returns to us wounded but unbroken.”

There were a few cheers, but Cass waved them away with her good arm.

“She has been filling me in on the latest doings of the Midnight Sun,” continued Mr. B. 

“It is worse than we imagined. Under the guise of running a dragon preserve, they’ve been training dragons to fly Midnight Sun members to the Other Side.…”

Cass nodded and then spoke with effort. 

“Or trying to. They seem to have had some problems making the trip, and Clay’s and my exit probably set them back a little, but I know the Midnight Sun: They don’t give up. They’re going to keep at it until they get what they want.”

Clay raised his hand.

“We’re not in class anymore, Clay,” said Mr. B.

“Speak.”

Clay blushed. 

Usually it was Mr. B who wouldn’t let Clay forget that he’d once been Clay’s language arts teacher. 

“Okay, well, I just thought you should know that the dragons at the Keep are Lost Ones—or at least that’s what Ariella calls them. They don’t know what it means to be dragons. It makes them more dangerous.”

“How so?”

“For one thing, they don’t know how to fly to the Other Side. Ariella says it takes years for a young dragon to learn how to do it right, but all these dragons are doing is flying superfast. That’s why there’s a rip in the sky above the crater. Ariella says if they keep at it, the rip is going to keep getting bigger and bigger until, well, I didn’t really understand the rest.…”

Buzz, sitting on the other side of Mr. B, looked grave.

“I think what the dragon’s saying is that the separation between our world and the Other Side will be destroyed. I can’t imagine what that would mean. The laws of physics, everything we think know about the natural world, would be in question.”

“That’s why we have to stop them,” agreed Mr. B.

“How?” Leira asked.

“The Midnight Sun already has three big dragons, and a half dozen others that are catching up.”

Clay nodded. 

“It would take an army of dragons to stop them. Hey—cut that out!” 

Something big and sharp was poking him in the back.

He looked over his shoulder and saw Ariella’s tail nudging him. 

The dragon let out a low rumble.

“There’re more dragons?” Clay said, incredulous. 

“Why didn’t you say so?! Oh… so that’s what you were doing all year—looking for them?”

Then you weren’t intentionally avoiding me, he almost added.

As Clay listened to the dragon’s response, the others glanced between Clay and Ariella, confused.

“Does Ariella think these other dragons can help us?” asked Mr. B.

“Maybe,” said Clay.

“There’s only one problem. The dragons are all on the Other Side. And they intend to stay there—away from us. From humans.”

After what everyone had seen and heard about the Midnight Sun, hearing that dragons held grudges against humans wasn’t exactly a surprise.

“Can they be convinced to come back?” Cass asked.

“What about it, Ariella?” Clay asked. 

“Even if they don’t care about people, what about the baby dragons? Maybe they could be saved.”

The dragon shook its massive head.

“What do you mean, I need to explain it to them?!” Clay demanded.

Gulping, Clay turned to the others. 

“Ariella says the only way that the other dragons might come back is if I go to the Other Side to ask.”

“What!” Leira squeaked. 

“Why?”

“To make the case for why they should even care about our world. Ariella can’t do it, because they would automatically consider any dragon who spoke for a human to be a traitor.”

Mr. B frowned. 

“Are you saying Ariella wants to take you to the Other Side?”

“I’m not sure that’s such a good idea,” Cass said. 

“You saw what happened to Schrödinger.” 

She turned to Mr. B.

“The Midnight Sun sent this guy to the Other Side as a test, like they were sending a monkey into space to see whether he’d make it back alive. And believe me, he wasn’t all there when he got back.”

Clay swallowed, remembering Schrödinger jumping up and down like a crazed clown.

Flint had arrived in the middle of the conversation and was leaning casually against the dome. 

“Are you seriously going to let this kid go to the Other Side?” 

He nodded scornfully toward Clay. 

“Look at him. He barely got out of the Keep alive. And then only because his precious dragon saved his butt at the last minute. And now you’re gonna send him on probably the most dangerous journey any of us have ever been on? Isn’t this a job for a counselor?” 

Flint grinned. 

Evidently, he meant himself.

Clay found himself standing up, his fists balled at his sides.

Mr. B shook his head. 

“Clay, whatever you’re about to do, don’t. Flint, that wasn’t very constructive.”

“I’ll be back,” said Clay through clenched teeth. 

He grabbed DragonSlayer, which was leaning against a rock, and walked out from under the geodesic dome. 

Only to be confronted by Ariella’s golden eyes staring at him.

“What?” he muttered angrily. 

“Am I not following the rules of the Dragon Way?”

Back in his cabin, Clay sat on his bed and fumed. 

Next to him was the cheesy neon faux-graffiti skateboard helmet that Max-Ernest had sent only two days earlier. 

It seemed like a long time had passed since then.

Clay picked up the helmet and was about to throw it against the wall, when the cabin door creaked open. 

Leira and Brett came over and sat on the bunk opposite him.

“Don’t listen to Flint,” said Leira.

Brett nodded. 

“He’s not the biggest jerk there is, but he’s up there—and I’m an expert.”

“Yeah, he’s a jerk,” said Clay. 

“But he’s right. I was crazy to stay there without Owen.”

He hit his skateboard helmet in frustration.

“What are you talking about?” said Leira. 

“You got Cass out. Mission accomplished.”

“Only because Ariella miraculously appeared. Or not miraculously. More like ’cause of you guys.”

“Well, don’t sound so mad about it,” said Leira.

“Sorry.” Clay smiled—briefly. 

“I guess I should say thanks.”

Brett shook his head. 

“So you’re just going to sit here banging on your helmet while you let Flint go to the Other Side?”

“Why not? I know he denies it, but he’s got the Occulta Draco—I’m sure of it,” said Clay, repeatedly hitting the helmet. 

“He knows as much as I do. And he practically breathes fire himself.”

“Dude, will you stop it with the helmet already?” said Leira.

Clay stopped, an idea hitting him. 

“Wait a second.… Wasn’t there something in the Occulta Draco about a helmet?”

He shut his eyes and thought back to what he’d read in those pages just days earlier.

Ten minutes later, Clay was standing with Ariella outside the dome, trying to persuade his fellow campers not to get too close to the dragon, while simultaneously assuring them that they needn’t be afraid.

“Pardon me… excuse me…”

The crowd parted and Leira emerged, carrying Clay’s garbage-lid sled over her head and looking very irritable.

“Okay. Now do you want to explain why the heck you needed your old volcano sled to go to the Other Side?”

“Not sled—shield!” said Clay, with considerably more liveliness than he’d shown only moments before.

“Right. Of course. Silly me.”

Ignoring her, Clay took the board and grabbed its strap, looping it over his head so it rested against his back. 

He put on the skateboard helmet and raised DragonSlayer into the air, a little bit embarrassed, but determined nonetheless.

“I’m ready!”

Kwan shook his head. 

“Dude. You are so happy I don’t have a camera right now.”

“No, seriously,” said Clay. 

“Listen to this.…” 

He recited the words from memory: “Let not a dragon leap when you’re astride, Lest you lose your mind on the Other Side. Yet if you must this dizzy journey make, Three things will keep you woozy but awake: First, your enemy’s sword will point the way. Next, the shield you made will keep ghosts at bay. Last, if you’d not return your brain half-dead, Please, a helmet from home put on your head.”

“A nursery rhyme?” guessed Kwan.

“No! It’s from the Occulta Draco,” Clay said.

“Don’t you see? The sled is the ‘shield I made.’”

He tapped his helmet. 

“The helmet my brother gave me is a ‘helmet from home’!”

He waved DragonSlayer. 

“And this right here is my ‘enemy’s sword.’”

Brett looked impressed. 

“It’s not exactly how I would dress you. But, you know, I think you’re onto something.”

Pablo reached over and grabbed the hilt of the sword, adjusting Clay’s grip. 

“You hold it like this.”

“How do you know?” Clay asked skeptically.

“You took fencing?”

Pablo shrugged. 

“Table tennis.”

Leira looked Clay up and down. 

“You’re really doing this?”

Clay nodded.

“Do you need a snack to take?” Brett asked. 

He flashed a candy bar from his secret stash.

Clay laughed, accepting the candy bar. 

“Thanks, I guess I could get hungry,” he said as a sobering thought hit him. 

“I don’t know how long I’ll be gone.”

Mr. B walked up, taking in Clay’s outfit. 

“That’s very true. I don’t mean to scare you, but you could take off and be gone for five minutes or five years. Time is different on the Other Side, if it exists at all.”

Jonah glanced around. 

“So for all we know, he came back yesterday and he’s hiding behind a rock, watching us right now?”

Mr. B nodded.

“Whoa,” Pablo said, shaking his head. 

“Trippy.”

“Trippy,” Mr.  B agreed.

“Well then, I’d better get going, I guess,” said Clay, whose nerves were beginning to fray. 

“There’s that whole time-travel thing where you’re not supposed to run into yourself, right?” he joked halfheartedly.

Clay climbed onto Ariella’s back—no easy task with his sword and shield—and awkwardly saluted his friends. 

“Wish me luck.”

His friends saluted back. 

“Good luck!”

“Wait,” said Kwan. 

“What if everything is all reversed on the Other Side? You know, parallel universe–style. Shouldn’t we wish him bad luck, too—just in case?”

But it was too late. 

Ariella lifted off the ground, sending the group scattering with a great flapping of wings. 

The campers held their hands to their eyes, squinting as Clay and Ariella flew higher and higher, until they were nothing more than a dark speck in the clear blue sky.

After a moment, breakfast was announced, and all the campers started walking toward Big Yurt. 

A mood of quiet anxiety pervaded the group; so much seemed to rest on Clay’s trip to the Other Side, and yet the nature of his destination was totally mysterious.

Suddenly, Jonah stopped and pointed. 

“Hey. What’s that?”

As one, his friends turned their heads to look in the direction opposite from the way Ariella had flown. 

There was another spot in the sky, but this one was getting bigger and bigger.

“What the…?” Leira said as the spot got closer. 

It was starting to look like… Could it be…?

“Ariella?” Brett said, incredulous. 

“Already?” It had been less than three minutes since they’d left.

The dark spot was indeed Ariella, returning to the island at breakneck speed. 

The dragon coasted over the volcano and came to a rest on the shore of the lake. 

Leira and everyone else sprinted past the yurts to where Ariella had landed.

As they got closer they could see Clay, but something wasn’t right. 

He was lying facedown across Ariella’s back, completely still. 

He was still wearing the helmet, but the sled-turned-shield was cracked in half, and the sword was gone.

Leira and Brett ran across the beach as the dragon hunched its back and Clay slid to the ground.

“Clay?” Leira asked, lifting her friend’s head from the sand. 

“Clay?”

Clay’s face was pale and sweaty. 

He opened his eyes, but his pupils were dilated and he was breathing unevenly.

“I’ve got to go back…” Clay muttered deliriously. 

“Back there… not here…”

Jogging up to them, Cass slapped a hand over her mouth. 

He sounded just like a certain deranged cowboy back at the Keep.

“Back… back…” Clay repeated, and then his eyes shut.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

THE TRIP TO THE OTHER SIDE

Three minutes earlier Ariella rocketed through the layer of vog that surrounded the island. 

In seconds, they were sailing through a cloudless sky, above a sparkling ocean. 

The wind tugged on Clay’s garbage-pail shield as if it were a kite, and Clay felt like he might fly off the dragon’s back at any second. 

And yet he couldn’t resist letting go for a moment and raising his hands in the air, sword flashing in the sunlight.

For one exhilarating moment, he forgot about everything—the people who were pinning their hopes on him, the dragons he was supposed to bring back with him, all the dangers he would soon confront—and he was lost again in the thrill of flight.

This was the feeling he remembered.

“So how long does it take to get there?” he asked, finally lowering his arms.

To what you humans call the Other Side?

“Yeah.… Wait. If you don’t call it the Other Side, what do you call it?” Clay asked.

Home.

“Oh, wow, like that’s where you grew up?”

Not that kind of home.

“What kind, then?”

Another kind.

“Well, how do we get there?”

We’re there now.

“We are?”

Look around.

Clay looked around. 

They were still flying over the ocean. 

The sun was high in the sky.

“It looks the same.”

That’s because your mind hasn’t opened yet. 

You are seeing only what you expect to see. 

Try again.

Clay closed his eyes, then opened them.

“Still the same.”

Not your eyes, your mind.

“How do I open my mind?”

Ariella was silent a moment, perhaps thinking about how to translate dragon knowledge into human terms.

Jump.

“What?”

Jump.

Don’t worry. 

I’ll catch you. 

You won’t need me to, but I will. *

Clay jumped.

Well, first, he stood on Ariella’s back—helmet still on his head, sword still in his hand, shield still over his shoulder—with his arms outstretched.

And then he jumped.

Or dove, really. 

Somewhere in his mind was an image of a skydiver diving headfirst through the air with his arms spread-eagled, and Clay unconsciously copied it.

Of course, a skydiver has a parachute. 

All he had was the word of a dragon. 

He was terrified.

He was in free fall. 

Or he should have been. 

He’d never been in free fall before, but he assumed it would feel faster, colder, windier.

Instead, he seemed to be falling in slow motion. 

And then he didn’t seem to be falling at all but rather floating through space. 

No, not space. Light. 

It seemed like he was traveling through light—pure and bright, but also somehow soft and gentle.

He never saw Ariella fly past, but there Ariella was, waiting to catch him, as promised.

Clay drifted down, as if he were no heavier than a leaf, and settled gently onto the dragon’s back.

And then he became very, very tired.

He blinked a few times. 

His eyelids felt heavy.

Don’t go to sleep, Ariella warned him. 

Or you will not go back.

“What? Oh, right!”

Clay shook his head and sat up straight, remembering what the Occulta Draco had said: his sword, shield, and helmet were supposed to keep him “woozy but awake.” 
Forcing himself to keep his eyes open, he adjusted his grip on DragonSlayer, rattled his garbage-pail shield, and tightened the strap of his skateboard helmet.

“So is this it?” he asked, looking around. 

There still wasn’t much to see, but the light had become sparkly and iridescent, as if at any moment something spectacular might pop out of it. 

“Or is there, like, a particular place we’re going to?”

You tell me. This is your trip.

“What do you mean? Where are the dragons?”

Wherever you find them.

“You don’t know where they are?”

Where they are for me is not where they are for you.

On the Other Side, you make your own path.

While Clay tried to digest this, a shape appeared in the air in front of them. 

Clay peered at it as it came closer. 

“Is that a… house?”

Do you see a house?

“You don’t?”

Everyone sees different things on the Other Side. 

Even dragons do not see everything here.

It was a little white cottage floating toward them. Clay was reminded of The Wizard of Oz, except that there was no tornado whipping them around; there wasn’t even a breeze.

As they approached, Clay saw that the door of the cottage was ajar. 

(He remembered learning the word ajar when he was little: “When is a door not a door?” his brother would ask—one of his many corny jokes and riddles.)

“Do you think I should look inside?” Clay asked. 

He felt somehow that the door had been left open—ajar—for him.

Perhaps.

“Can you stop—”

I can…

“Will you?” said Clay impatiently.

Ariella had pushed him to go on this journey to the Other Side; couldn’t the dragon be a little more helpful?

Ariella slowed almost to a stop, and Clay nervously jumped to the front stoop of the cottage. 

It was like jumping onto a boat, or maybe a bouncy house. 

Gravity was more of a “suggestion” here. 

Clay nearly sprang back up onto the dragon before righting himself and heading for the cottage door.

Just before entering, he looked back at Ariella. 

Was it his imagination, or was the dragon slipping away?

Good-bye, Ariella said.

“Aren’t you going to wait!?”

I’ll be there when you need me.

And then, to Clay’s alarm, the dragon vanished altogether.

Forcing himself to remain calm, Clay walked into the cottage and found himself in a tiny wood-paneled room the size of a coat closet. 

What was so familiar about this room? 

It was like a room from a half-remembered dream.

A little brass sign on the paneling read: What's the magic word? 

Then he realized what the room reminded him of: the entry to the old magician Pietro’s house. 

When Clay was little—when his brother was not much older than Clay was now—Max-Ernest would often tell Clay a bedtime story about his adventures with Cass. 

And the story would often begin in Pietro’s strange underground house.

In Max-Ernest’s telling, the entry to the house was an elevator, activated when the magic word was spoken, that word being please. 

Max-Ernest seemed to think this was hilarious, but Clay had never found it especially funny.

Funny or not, saying “please” didn’t work. 

Perhaps this wasn’t the same room after all. 

Well, of course it wasn’t; he was on the Other Side. 

Nothing would be the same here.

Clay thought a moment; for him and his brother, there had never been magic words, only bad words. 

That is, bad word had been their preferred word (or phrase, actually) for magic word.

“Bad…” he said, and waited. 

When nothing happened, he added, “… word.”

Sure enough, there was a jolt, and the room started to descend. 

Max-Ernest’s story had morphed to suit Clay.

When the elevator door opened, Clay saw an old man with a bushy gray mustache and twinkling eyes. 

He was wearing a black suit and a top hat, and he appeared to be floating a few feet in the air, like a man in a Magritte painting. *

“Paul-Clay, if I do not make a mistake? Welcome, my young amico—”

He beckoned to Clay, who hesitantly stepped out of the elevator and into—what? 

Not a cloud. 

More like blankness. 

He found he was able to walk, but the sensation was a bit like swimming.

“You look a little like your brother, but I do not remember him wearing a helmet. Or carrying a sword.”

The man’s voice was warm and crusty, like bread out of the oven, and he had an Italian accent.

Clay felt immediately that he could trust him.

“Do you know who I am?” the man asked.

“Pietro?” Clay guessed. 

“My brother—he used to tell stories about you.”

“Sì,” Pietro said with a warm smile. 

“Tell me, why have you come to the Other Side? You are chasing after a chicken?”

“A chicken?”

“Oh, just a little joke.” 

Pietro waved his hand dismissively. 

“You know, why did the chicken cross the road?”

“To get to the other side?”

“Right. But then the next one to cross the road, he is chasing after the chicken, no?”

“Okay,” said Clay, still not exactly sure what Pietro was getting at, but already seeing why he and Max-Ernest had gotten along so well.

“But speak truly,” said Pietro. 

“Why are you here? You are so young. I hope you have not come to stay!”

“No, I’m here on a… chase, I guess you could say. But not chasing chickens. Chasing dragons.”

“Ah, dragons, yes.” Pietro beamed. 

“We must all face our dragons. Our darkest fears. Our secret hopes. Those monsters we vanquish to find our true selves…”

Clay shook his head.  

“Um, that’s not what I—”

“Now, your brother, he had many dragons. Do you want to know what was one of the most important?”

“The Midnight Sun?”

“Well, yes, of course. But I was thinking of one closer to home.… You.”

“Me?” 

Clay blinked.

Pietro nodded genially. 

“You are surprised? Like many older brothers, when you were born, Max-Ernest, he was a little jealous. He felt he was being replaced in his parents’ hearts. But then what happens? Your parents, they were so lost in their own world that he had to take care of you himself, did he not?”

“Yeah, maybe, for a while, but he didn’t stick with it for that long,” said Clay, unable to keep the bitterness out of his voice.

“Perhaps not, but it is a big challenge for a teenage boy, to be not just a brother but a father. To put another life first before his own.”

“Right. Well, anyway,” said Clay, “that’s not the kind of dragon I’m talking about. I mean real dragons. Dragon dragons.”

Pietro frowned, disappointed. 

“Dragon dragons. Hmph. I do not think I can help you with dragon dragons.” 

He looked around as if to show that there were no dragons easily available.

“Oh, that’s okay,” said Clay, disappointed.

“Do you know who can?”

“I have no idea,” said Pietro, bemused. 

“Are there dragon specialists? Is that a branch of zoology I’m not aware of?”

“There are Dragon Tamers,” said Clay.

“Well, there you are,” said Pietro contentedly. 

“Then a Dragon Tamer you shall find.”

“But I don’t know how to find a Dragon Tamer, either.” 

Clay sighed.

At least he had Ariella’s word for it that there were dragons on the Other Side; he had no evidence that there were also Dragon Tamers here.

“Maybe you should try calling for one. In the real world, this might not work, of course. But here…” 

Pietro shrugged.

“You mean just, like, call out loud… or on the phone?” asked Clay, confused.

“Either. It matters not. But if it makes you happy, you can use this—” 

He held up a white-tipped black stick.

“Your magic wand?”

“Oh, sorry, I meant this—”

Pietro tapped the air with the wand, and the wand turned into an old-fashioned black telephone receiver with white ear- and mouthpieces. 

A cord dangled uselessly; the main body of the phone was missing. *

“Um, that’s okay,” said Clay. 

“Maybe I’ll just try shouting.”

“Have it your way,” said Pietro amiably. 

“Before you go, I have a message for your brother.” 

He removed the hat from his head and turned it over, showing Clay the inside. 

“Tell Max-Ernest to look under the lining. I’ve left one last surprise for him.

”With that, Pietro put the top hat back on and started to walk away.

“Hey, don’t you want to give the hat to my brother?” 

Clay called after him, confused.

“Oh, no,” Pietro chuckled, disappearing from sight.

“He already has it.”

Clay thought of the old top hat that Max-Ernest wore during his magic shows; it did look very similar, come to think of it. 

Max-Ernest had had the hat for as long as Clay could remember. 

Along with that rabbit of his, with the silly name. 

Quiche. 

Whenever he wanted to make Clay laugh, Max-Ernest would pretend Quiche could talk. 

The way Max-Ernest described it, Quiche was always mad at him and always demanding more carrots.

It was funny, thinking back to that time. 

Maybe Quiche really could talk. 

Clay had seen stranger things by now—including a few talking animals.

Clay turned, thinking he would get back in the elevator, but the elevator was gone. 

He was all alone in the nothingness.

Trying not to panic, he took a breath. 

There was no reason not to take Pietro’s suggestion and call for a Dragon Tamer. 

Which Dragon Tamer? 

The author of the memoirs, presumably. 

Clay didn’t know his name, but maybe that didn’t matter any more than whether or not he used a telephone.

“I am looking for the last Dragon Tamer! The author of the memoirs!” 

Feeling extremely foolish, Clay shouted as loudly as he could, but his voice did not seem to carry very far in this nowhere land. 

“I am a follower of the Occulta Draco!”

He waited, not knowing what to expect or what he would do if there was no response.

The wait was not long. 

As soon as he started to yawn, a stone archway appeared where the elevator had been. 

Behind it was a narrow stairway leading upward.

Full of trepidation, Clay mounted the stairway. 

It was long and steep, with hundreds of steps. 

He climbed, huffing and puffing, until he had to stop to take a breath.

A voice cried out from above: “Keep going! Are you afraid of a few measly steps? A Dragon Tamer must have strong legs!”

A few measly steps.  

Right. 

Clay’s legs burned from climbing all those stairs with the added weight of his shield and sword, but eventually he reached the top.

A man stood in front of a heavy wooden door that glowed around the jambs. 

He wore an old leather vest, had long dark hair swept back, and met Clay’s eyes with an intense gaze.

“Hello,” Clay said.

“Hmph,” the man said. 

“Do you know why I’m here?”

Because I called for you, Clay thought, but he didn’t say so.

“I’m here to judge whether you’re worthy to meet with the dragons. So far I’m not impressed.”

“How did you know that’s why I came?”

“The dragons told me.”

“How do they know?”

“Because the dragons have a different experience of time. In a sense, you’ve already met them. They live forward and backward at once.”

“Well, why can’t I just meet them, then? You’re making me jump through hoops for no reason.”

“It doesn’t work like that.”

“I need to ask them for help,” Clay said.

“Don’t. They will see no reason for a dragon to help a human.”

“Should I try to ally with them first?”

“No! That would be worse. These dragons are very proud. If you try to do favors for them, or start singing…” 

The Dragon Tamer’s eyes strayed to the sword in Clay’s hand. 

His expression darkened. 

“Your sword—is that the one they call DragonSlayer?”

Clay nodded.

“That is an evil thing. It is no sword for a Dragon Tamer. Be gone with it. If the dragons see that, they will burn you alive.”

“But—but your poem said to bring an enemy’s sword,” Clay stammered.

“That’s just an old saying, and I can’t imagine that whoever first said it was thinking of DragonSlayer! But perhaps…” 

The Dragon Tamer furrowed his brow. 

“Perhaps the sword may be of use after all. I shall send you to the dragons, if you like. But I warn you: It may not end well.”

“Thanks,” said Clay, wondering what not ending well meant. 

Could you be killed on the Other Side? 

Or did you just get stuck there?

“They will ask you three questions.”

“What questions?”

The Dragon Tamer shrugged. 

“The questions don’t matter. It is how you answer them.”

“How should I answer them?”

“The only advice I can give is to take your time about it. Years, if you like.”

“I don’t have years!”

“Dragons like to talk sideways, around a problem. To them, a quick answer is a careless answer.”

“Okay. So I answer slowly. Then what? If they like my answer, I ask if they’ll help me?”

“No. They already know why you’re here.  Tell them you have a gift for them.”

“But I don’t have a gift.”

“The sword. They may not like it, but they will be glad to know it can never be used against a dragon again.”

Clay nodded. 

“And the Midnight Sun won’t be able to use the blood on it to make any more little dragon clones.…”

“What?” 

The all-knowing Dragon Tamer was mystified.

“Never mind,” said Clay. 

“I don’t totally understand how they do it, either.”

“Here, wrap the sword in this.” 

The Dragon Tamer handed Clay a tattered piece of cloth.

“How do I find them?” Clay asked.

“The dragons? Well, don’t go looking for them. That’s always a mistake.”

“Call to them, then? Like I did for you?”

“Like a child or a pet? Never! They would be very insulted.”

“What, then?”

“Close your eyes. Let them find you.”

“Okay, um, thanks.”

He started to close his eyes, then opened them again. 

“You aren’t going to leave, are you?”

“No. You are.”

When Clay opened his eyes, he understood what the Dragon Tamer had meant. 

Clay was on the other side of the door now, in some sort of canyon.

It was daytime. 

No, that wasn’t right. 

It was day where he was, the sky a bright blue; but in the distance it was night, the sky a dark purple, with twinkling stars. 

As though he were looking into a different time zone. 

Or as though in this place all time zones were one.

Immediately in front of him was a gray, hulking rock formation. 

Farther into the canyon, there were a few trees scattered about, but mostly there were more rock formations. 

Hundreds and hundreds of them. 

Jagged and craggy and menacing. 

A white mist swirled around them, like a stream.

“Hello?” Clay said tentatively.

He turned around. 

There were no signs of life. 

Not so much as a fly to be seen, never mind a dragon.

He turned around again. 

By the time he’d made a full rotation, the closest rock formation was gone and an enormous dragon was staring at him—a dragon that would have made even Ariella look small, and would have made Bluebeard look like a puppy.

Behind the dragon, other rock formations were shaking, as if in an earthquake. 

Gradually, Clay could make out hunched shoulders, folded wings, curled tails; the rocks were dragons.

The dragon in front of him looked old in the way a mountain looks old: like it had taken millions of years to grow and would take millions more to crumble back into the earth. 

The dragon breathed, and its scales rippled, sending silvery shimmers across its massive body.

Hello, human.

“Um—hello…” Clay stammered.

Hello what? 

Hello, dragon? 

Hello, Mr. Dragon?

Mrs. Dragon? 

No, dragons were neither male nor female.

You may call me Old One, said the dragon, as if it had heard Clay’s thoughts (which it probably had).

We have three questions for you, human. 

If you answer properly, we will consider your request.

Answer properly, Clay thought. 

Is that the same thing as correctly?

“Right,” said Clay. 

“Fire away.” 

As soon as the words fire away were out of his mouth, he regretted them: Not only was the phrase slangy in a way a dragon might not appreciate, but also there was the possibility that the dragon would take the words literally and fire away at him.

Thankfully, Old One didn’t appear to notice.

Here is your first question, human, said the dragon. 

What is the worst mistake a dragon can make?

Clay felt an immediate sense of relief: He knew the answer to this question from reading the Occulta Draco. 

But he remembered the Dragon Tamer’s advice about not answering too quickly, so he bent his head and pretended to think it over.

“A dragon cannot make a mistake,” he said slowly. 

“Whatever a dragon does, it has already done. So it’s not right or wrong; it just is.”

Yes. 

It just is. 

The dragon nodded, though it did not seem especially pleased by Clay’s answer.

Clay waited for what seemed to him a very long time, which was probably only a blink for a dragon.

Finally, the dragon spoke again: What is the worst mistake a human can make?

This question was trickier. 

To kill a dragon, perhaps? 

No. Too risky. 

A dragon would be insulted by the very idea of a person killing a dragon.

He thought for another moment.

Probably a dragon would think anything a human did was a mistake.

“To think he is like a dragon—that he cannot make mistakes. That is the worst mistake a human can make.”

The dragon looked at Clay without indicating approval or disapproval. 

Clay’s hands were sweating. 

Had he answered too quickly? 

He had meant to take his time, but nerves had gotten the better of him.

What is the greatest mistake you have made?

Clay thought of all the mistakes he’d made in his lifetime. 

Which was the worst? 

And did he really want to share it with Old One? 

If the mistake was truly terrible, would the dragon think him unworthy of help?

Then again, maybe his worst mistake was one he didn’t yet know he’d made.

For instance, coming to the Other Side might have been his worst mistake. 

Or maybe it wasn’t a mistake at all. 

There was no way of knowing.

He wished his brother were there to help him with the riddle. 

But it isn’t a riddle, his brother would say. 

It’s just a question!

Yeah, yeah, I know, answered Clay in his head. 

Do you always have to be so logical?

“The worst mistake I’ve made is not forgiving the mistakes of others,” he said finally. 

Maybe it was time to forgive Max-Ernest. 

That was what Pietro had been trying to tell him, wasn’t it?

You are uncertain.

“Well, how can you be certain of something like that? I mean…”

Yes.

There was a long silence. 

Clay wasn’t sure whether or when he was supposed to speak.

“I have a gift for you,” he said, unable to bear the silence any longer. 

He unwrapped the sword and laid it down in front of the dragon.

The dragon glared at him.

“Its name is DragonSlayer,” said Clay nervously.

I know what its name is, human, the dragon roared. 

You dare call this a gift? 

This thing that has murdered so many of our kind.

“I was going to get rid of it, but I thought you’d want to do that,” said Clay, trying not to cower. 

“You know, to make sure it was done right.”

Have you used this sword yourself? Have you drawn blood from a dragon?

“No, never!” declared Clay truthfully. 

Silently, he thanked Ariella for forbidding him to use the sword.

There was another long and uncomfortable silence. 

Uncomfortable for Clay, that is, not for the dragon.

Very well, said the dragon at last. 

You have done right to bring us the sword. 

We will help you, and we will save our young if they can be saved—but when we are done, we will come back here and we will shut the door behind us. 

We dragons are finished with your world, and you are finished with ours.

Clay wanted to say what a terrible idea this was, how much he loved and admired dragons, more even than skateboarding and graffiti art and animals and magic and all the other things he loved (well, dragons pretty much were magic, but still…), and how he wished there would always be dragons in the world, and what a sad and boring world it would be without them, but all he said was, “Thank you.”

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

THE RAID ON THE LABORATORY

Later that afternoon Satya wasn’t afraid anymore. 

Not of Ms. Mauvais. 

Not of the dragons. 

Not of being stranded in the middle of a jungle in the middle of a crater in the middle of a desert. 

She figured she’d seen the worst of all of those things already, and she’d survived.

Survived. 

Like Cass. 

The survivalist. 

Satya’s new role model. 

Cass wasn’t afraid of anything. *

Still.

Not being afraid was no reason not to be careful.

She had Hero with her, of course. 

Her spy, bodyguard, and secret weapon. 

But Hero was unpredictable when it came to dragons. 

To say the least.

She looked at the laboratory building, trying to study it analytically.

Getting in wasn’t going to be a problem. 

She still had Gyorg’s keys. 

It was the getting out that would be tricky. 

Most staff members were occupied with salvaging materials from the castle and building temporary shelters. 

Nonetheless, it was more than possible that one or more guards might be chasing her. 

They might even go after her with a helicopter.

And then there was Bluebeard, still out there somewhere. 

Waiting to get revenge. 

Snowflake and Rover were back under the dome, but so far Bluebeard had evaded capture. 

The dragon had either found a way to deactivate its collar or flown so far afield that the collar no longer worked. 

All Midnight Sun staff were under orders to shoot the one-eyed menace on sight.

Satya had watched Dr. Paru exit the laboratory. 

Then she waited a full five minutes to make sure the scientist wasn’t coming back. 

(If Satya had hoped to find an ally in Dr. Paru, she’d given up; Dr. Paru was too married to her science, or too afraid of Ms.  Mauvais, or simply too well paid, to question what the Midnight Sun was doing.)

And now it was time. 

Satya unlocked the laboratory door and walked swiftly toward the nurseries. 

Hero was tense, even shaking a little bit, but the falcon seemed to understand that she was supposed to remain silent.

The little dragons, in contrast, were shrieking noisily. 

The last time they’d seen Hero, she’d really riled them up, and it appeared that they remembered. 

Satya wasn’t sure whether they regarded the falcon as friend or foe or food, but whatever the case, they didn’t find Hero’s presence soothing.

One by one, she released them from their cages. 

First the four babies, whom she called Louis, Percy, Sarah, and Garby (all named after former pets of Satya’s). 

Then Houdini and Bodhi, whose hoods and jesses she carefully removed. 

Usually so mellow, Bodhi wasn’t very mellow now. 

None of them were. 

There was total chaos in the room. 

Talons scratching walls. 

Bottles crashing to the floor.

Attempting to convey a sense of calm authority, she carried a cooler full of meat in front of her—the only thing that would focus the dragons’ attention—and walked out of the room. 

The little dragons followed her, fighting for the positions closest to the meat.

They didn’t make a line so much as a writhing black ball. 

Hero circled the dragons, trying to keep them all going in the same direction, like a dog shepherding a flock of sheep.

Amazingly, the motley group made it outside without interruption. 

They appeared to be alone. 

Satya allowed herself a small sigh of relief as she marched her crew steadily forward.

Her father, she felt sure, would help her when the time came. 

They were to leave that afternoon, one way or another. 

He’d sworn it, and she intended to hold him to his promise. 

But they simply couldn’t leave knowing that all these baby dragons were still in captivity, property of the Midnight 

Sun.So they would take the dragons. 

How?

Vaguely, she imagined that she and her father would put all six dragons and Hero in a helicopter and then escape to parts unknown. 

An island, maybe. 

Or somewhere in the Arctic.

Realistic? 

Probably not. 

The dragons wouldn’t like being confined in the helicopter. 

How long before they revolted? 

And even if she and her father successfully relocated the dragons, what would they do when the dragons got bigger? 

But what other options were there?

One step at a time, she told herself. 

Or one flap of the wing, in the case of the dragons.

She noticed the silence first.

The chattering and the screeching, the flying and the fighting—suddenly, it had all stopped.

She looked down. There were no more little talons or teeth scratching and snapping at the cooler.

She turned around.

Where were all the dragons?

A large fern drew her attention; a pair of yellow eyes stared out from the shadows beneath it.

Satya spotted the little dragons, one after another, peering out from the foliage. 

They were quiet but alert, quivering. 

She smiled uncertainly. 

Were they hiding from her? 

Was it some kind of game? 

No, they didn’t seem the least bit interested in her. 

It was something else. 

Something they feared.

Hero hissed in her ear.

Slowly, Satya raised her eyes to the sky. 

Bluebeard.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE

THE THUNDER OF DRAGONS

“… and then Old One yawns, this huge, huge dragon yawn, with the big bumpy tongue and the big broken teeth, rows and rows of them, and everything, and suddenly it’s like the biggest windstorm ever, a really hot and smelly windstorm, and it sends me flying, and I guess I hit my head and get knocked out, or maybe there’s like some kind of sleeping gas in the dragon’s breath, and then I guess Ariella finds me and takes me home, because I wake up here in Puke Yurt with a splitting headache and you guys staring at me like my face peeled off or something, and…” 

Clay faltered, nervous. 

“Wait, it didn’t actually peel off, did it? I mean, I look normal, right?”

Leira and Brett peered down at him.

“Define normal,” said Leira.

Brett nodded judiciously. 

“Yeah, it’s hard to say without knowing what the bar for normal is.”

“You guys are always so reassuring.”

Clay sat up and surveyed the round room, filled with mysterious medicinal herbs and ointments.

“So, they’re not here… are they?” he asked, looking out the window. 

All that was visible were trees.

“Who?” asked Leira.

“Old One. And the other dragons.”

“Here at camp? Should they be?”

“Well, yeah,” said Clay. 

“I mean, if they aren’t, then it was all for nothing, wasn’t it—the whole trip?”

“Why do you say that?” asked Brett.

“It sounds sort of amazing, if you ask me. You got to go where nobody ever gets to go, or at least where, er, nobody ever gets to go back from.”

“Did I? How do I know it wasn’t a dream?” 

Agitated, Clay threw off his blanket. 

“I’m not even sure the dragons were real.”

Before Clay’s friends could respond, the yurt’s flap door was thrown back and Jonah stuck his head in. 

“Um, hey, guys?” he said, hesitant. 

“You might want to come look at this.”

Rubbing his eyes, Clay climbed out of bed, and they all peeked out of the yurt. 

Jonah pointed his thumb over his shoulder, toward the clouds.

The horizon was filled with undulating black shapes.

Dragons—hundreds of them—were sweeping across the sky, headed right for Earth Ranch.

And now it’s time to answer a question that (if you’re anything like me) has been eating away at you for the last few chapters: What do you call a group of dragons? 

In other words, what is the correct collective noun? 

Is it a herd of dragons? 

A school? 

A flock? 

A pride?

Short answer: There are several answers.

While a group of dragon eggs may be referred to as a clutch, a group of very young dragons is a brood, and a group of grown dragons is most often known as a weyr. 

But that’s only if they’re on the ground. 

A group of aquatic dragons may be referred to as a lagoon. 

A group of dragons soaring through the sky is a flight, though some insist on calling it a stampede or a thunder.

If you’d found yourself among the dragons arriving en masse over the crater, I think you would have gone with that last word, thunder. 

With so many wings flapping at once, it was like being inside a hurricane; and if that wasn’t enough, their roaring and flame-spitting created a raging firestorm that was indeed thunderous.

Alas, Clay was the lone human to experience this firestorm. 

Leira and Brett had wanted to come, too, of course—all of Clay’s friends had—but Clay had insisted that it wasn’t necessary. 

(In fact, he’d asked Old One about bringing his friends along, only to be treated to an angry lecture about how dragons weren’t pack animals.) 

If a full thunder of dragons—a fleet?—couldn’t handle the job, what difference would a few kids make? 

As a compromise, Clay had agreed to wear the ski hat again, this time under the skateboard helmet. 

His head was hotter and itchier than ever, but he was grateful for the extra protection, especially with all the balls of fire streaking past him. 

As the dragons descended on the Keep, their wings drew closer together, darkening the sky like a great cloak. 

Peering over Ariella’s neck, 

Clay had to strain his eyes to see what was happening down below. 

It had been less than twenty-four hours since he’d left the Keep, but in that time enormous progress had been made. 

The remaining walls of the old castle had been knocked down, and the frame for a new building was already being erected. 

Most of the rubble had been carefully stacked in piles or already removed.

“Howzit look down there?” Leira asked in his ear.

“All I can say is the Midnight Sun works really fast.”

At this rate, the Keep would be back in business in a few days. 

But Clay didn’t intend to let that happen. 

And neither did the hundreds of dragons flying with him. 

The plan was very straightforward: All humans and dragons were to be removed from the crater—forcibly if necessary. 

The lab was to be destroyed. 

The Midnight Sun would have to move on.

Alighting on the crater’s rim, the majority of the dragons took positions around the sides of the crater. 

They sat like enormous gargoyles, guarding the pathways out into the desert.

Ariella, meanwhile, led a smaller group of dragons down toward the bottom of the crater to begin a sweep.

Where in the darkness below was Satya? 

Clay wondered. 

Had she and her father already escaped? 

For her sake, he hoped they had. 

And yet he wanted nothing more than to see her again.

First things first, Ariella chided him. 

The hatchlings. 

Where are they?

From over the tents, Clay steered Ariella toward the laboratory. 

The long building was dark, and no one was outside.

“That’s where the baby dragons are,” he said to Ariella, pointing at the lab.

Ariella headed toward the entrance, then abruptly pulled up before landing. 

Are you certain? 

I don’t feel them in there.

“I dunno, actually,” said Clay, peering down at the building. 

“I feel like something’s wrong, too.”

They circled the laboratory a few times, each time making a wider loop. 

Clay started to feel apprehensive.

Then he heard a familiar squawk. 

Not too far from the laboratory building, Hero was perched on a tree branch that hung over a jungle path.

Beneath her, six little dragons were frantically hopping up and down in distress. 

And lying between them…

“We need to get down there now!”

Ariella landed, and Clay jumped to the ground.

“Satya!”

As Clay approached, the little dragons hissed, but Ariella silenced them with a stern growl.

“Clay?”

“I told you I’d come back.”

Satya sat up shakily and propped herself against the meat cooler. 

She looked pale and frazzled but unharmed.

“What’s with the helmet?” she asked, peering at the graffiti lettering. 

“Just feeling sort of radical?”

Clay blushed. 

“Long story. Are you okay?”

“Yeah, I fell, but I’m fine.… I was just catching my breath. Bluebeard was about to pounce on us, and then the next second the sky was filled with dragons, and Bluebeard split.” 

She gestured to the little dragons. 

“These guys were pretty freaked.”

“They don’t look so freaked now,” Clay observed.

While they were speaking, Ariella had started speaking in a low rumble with the smaller dragons. 

They yelped and whined but sat still, their eyes fixed on the older dragon. 

Even Houdini and Bodhi.

“Guess Ariella is talking some sense into them.” 

Satya smiled. 

“So, that army of dragons up there—did you bring them?”

Clay shrugged, nonchalant. 

“Those guys? It’s only a few hundred dragons. Whatever.” 

He smiled.

Satya nodded. 

“Yeah, right. No big deal.”

They both laughed.

“You ready to climb onto Ariella’s back with me?”

Satya’s eyes shone with excitement. 

“Wait—I get to fly with you?”

Clay grinned. 

“What do you think I’m here for? I mean, that’s okay, right, Ariella?” he asked, backpedaling.

The dragon snorted in a way that seemed to say, Now you ask?

“What about these little guys?” asked Satya.

The little dragons were all standing at attention now, like dragon Cub Scouts. 

In unison, they bowed to Ariella and made a strange humming sound deep in their throats.

“Well, how about it?” Clay asked Ariella. 

“Are they Lost Ones?”

Not anymore, said Ariella, with a hint of pride.

It was a brief flight, about a quarter of a mile. 

For Satya, nonetheless, it was memorable; it was the first time she’d flown on a dragon.

For Clay, it was memorable, too, but for a different reason; it was the first time Satya had put her arms around him, even if it was only to keep herself from falling off.

The four youngest dragons were also riding on Ariella’s back—or, more precisely, on Ariella’s wings. 

They seemed to think it was a lot of fun getting flung up and down, over and over.

The two slightly older dragons, Houdini and Bodhi, flew behind, repeatedly turning their heads to either side; they’d been given instructions to keep looking in all directions and were avidly following their orders to the letter.

The guest tents, whatever remained of them, had been rolled up, and Clay and Satya didn’t see any signs of life until they neared the castle courtyard.

The two bronze dragons in the center of the courtyard fountain had fallen over, and a crane was parked nearby, ready to lift them back up. 

As Ariella glided to the ground beside the fountain, one of the Land Rovers nearly collided with them, then sideswiped the bottom of the crane.

Charles leaned out the driver’s-side window. 

“Austin, I must say, you know how to make an entrance!”

He smiled at Clay, apparently untroubled by the dozens of fire-spitting dragons flying directly above him. 

“I’d stay for a chat, but Reginald and Minerva here have a game waiting for them in Palm Beach. And frankly, all these dragons are beginning to be a bit of a bore.…” 

The Wandsworths were sitting stiffly in the backseat, looking directly ahead, with piles of expensive-looking luggage behind them.

“Until we meet again!” said Charles. 

With a casual wave, he stepped on the gas and headed out of the Keep.

“Now, that’s what I call blasé,” said Clay to himself.

As the one Land Rover disappeared, the other stopped in front of them, and Vicente jumped out.

“Satya! There you are!”

Vicente looked up at his daughter and Clay, obviously somewhat amazed to see them sitting on Ariella’s back. 

But all he said was “Glad you’re not alone.… Can you guys fly out of here on that thing?”

“This thing’s name is Ariella,” said Clay. 

“But, yeah, we can.”

“Good. I’ll meet you on the landing strip in half an hour.”

“But how are you going to get there?” his daughter asked, anxious.

“In the car. I have to help shuttle a few more employees out of here.” 

He pointed his thumb backward; the Land Rover was full to capacity. 

Blowing her a kiss, he hopped back in and drove away.

“Okay if we don’t leave quite yet?” Clay asked Satya. 

“I want to make sure this thing is finished.”

She nodded, and they both slid to the ground.

A long, gleaming trailer, the kind used by movie stars on location, was parked in front of the dismantled castle. 

CONSTRUCTION OFFICE, read a sign on the door.

As more dragons flew overhead, sending the occasional fireball into the courtyard, the trailer door slammed open and various people started spilling out, some looking terrified, other just annoyed. 

Last to join the commotion was Ms. Mauvais, accompanied by Amber and Gyorg. 

Just as they’d stepped out of the trailer, another dragon made a pass over the courtyard, and a second later the trailer erupted in flames.

Amber clutched her arms over her head, nearly bowling over Ms. Mauvais in her haste to get away from the fire.

“Clumsy girl!” chastised Ms.  Mauvais. 

“Panicking because it’s a little warm.”

When Ms. Mauvais regained her balance, she saw Clay standing before her. 

Behind him was Satya, standing by Ariella.

“Oh, it’s you,” Ms. Mauvais said, showing no reaction. 

(Charles might be blasé; she was a block of ice.) 

“Welcome… back.”

“I figured out who he is!” said Amber excitedly. 

“He’s Max-Ernest’s little brother. That man who brought him here before—he wasn’t his father; he was a spy!”

“Pity your epiphany didn’t come a day or two earlier,” said Ms. Mauvais in a tone notable precisely for its lack of pity. 

She studied Clay as if he were a specimen in a museum. 

“But now that you mention it, I do see a bit of a resemblance. Of course, Max-Ernest was always so…”

“What? So much cleverer than I am?” said Clay, with just a touch of bitterness.

“So much shorter, I was about to say.”

“Didn’t stop him from beating you, though, did it? Him and Cass?” said Clay defensively. 

“And they’re beating you again—we are, I mean.”

Ms. Mauvais gave him a mocking smile. 

“Oh, we are, are we?”

Gyorg had walked up and was standing stiffly beside her, ready to protect her if necessary.

“Yep,” said Clay, willing himself not to be scared. 

He had Ariella on his side, after all. 

“I’m here to tell you you’re done. You, this place, and your dragons.”

“Says the boy of what—twelve?” hissed Ms. Mauvais. 

“No one tells me when I’m done. I say when I’m done. And when I do, you will be a distant memory.”

A sustained ROARRRRRRRRR cut into the moment.

Clay turned to see an enormous dragon approaching. 

The biggest one of all. 

Old One.

The dragon landed next to Ariella, taking up half the courtyard.

On Old One’s back was a young man. 

He laughed as Clay stared at him.

“Who’s that?” Satya whispered.

“His name is Flint,” said Clay through gritted teeth.

Flint grinned down at him. 

“Surprised?”

Clay shook his head.

Flint on a dragon’s back? 

In fact, no sight could have surprised Clay more. 

Surprised him and infuriated him.

“How’d you do it?” Clay asked, struggling to contain his temper.

“The Occulta Draco—what else?” said Flint. 

“You should never have let it out of your hands.”

“You used a spell?” Clay was dubious.

“I made a trade,” said Flint.

Clay understood immediately; it was just what he’d done with DragonSlayer. 

Old One would have hated the idea of a book that might teach a human to control a dragon. 

Far better to take the book out of human hands, even if it meant having to give Flint a ride.

Behind him, a rumble came from deep inside Ariella’s chest. 

Old One gave an answering rumble. 

Clay wasn’t certain, but he thought Old One was saying something like Hold your fire.

Ms. Mauvais stepped toward Flint, clapping.

“Bravo, darling,” she said in her most seductive voice. 

“I, for one, am very impressed. And very glad to see you again.

”Flint stood up straighter and frowned. 

“You are?”

“Why not? Things have changed.” Ms. Mauvais lifted her arms to the sky. 

“As you see, we have a veritable army of dragons now.”

“They aren’t yours.”

“With your help they might be.…” 

She met the young man’s gaze and held it. 

Until, with an effort, he turned away.

Clay glanced at the dragons. 

He knew they would be insulted by the notion that dragons could be made into an army under human control, but they showed no reaction. 

Yet.

“You just want to go to the Other Side to become immortal,” said Flint.

“Yes, but with the dragons at our command, why, we could do so much more,” said Ms.  Mauvais. 

“That would be just the beginning.”

Flint looked around as if weighing the possibilities. 

“What do you want?”

“To start? Take me away from here.”

“What about me?” Amber protested.

“You?” said Ms. Mauvais, as if only just noticing her. 

“Stay here and await my return. If something comes up, do whatever your instincts tell you not to do. I’m sure that will be the safest course. Gyorg will assist you.”

Standing nearby, Gyorg coughed but said nothing. 

Neither he nor Amber was very happy about this plan.

“You and I will be a team,” said Ms.  Mauvais, returning to Flint. 

“All we need is one dragon to start. If others follow, fantastic. If not, we make more. A drop of blood is all it takes.”

Clay watched to see what Flint would do, and what Old One would do in response. 

What game was the wily old dragon playing? 

Did Old One perhaps want something that the Midnight Sun had? 

If Old One went back on the deal with Clay, all the other dragons would likely follow suit, and there was nothing Clay could do about it.

A bead of sweat dripped down from his forehead to his nose.

“Really? Just one drop of blood?” said Flint at last, his feverish excitement evident in his face. 

“And with it we could—ahhhhhhh!”

Flint fell off Old One’s back as the dragon let out a roar that literally made the ground shake.

You dare speak of dragon blood? raged Old One. 

I promised to take you here, but I said nothing about taking you back. 

I am done.

Like a huge Viking ship setting sail, the dragon spread its creaky wings and lurched into the air, while Flint watched aghast.

Clay’s smile of satisfaction lasted only a second. 

Next to him, Ariella growled, ready for battle.

Another dragon had swooped into the courtyard. 

The last dragon anybody wanted to see. 

Bluebeard.

Clay could feel Satya tensing.

What was the one-eyed monster after this time?

Landing in the fountain, Bluebeard perched on top of the fallen bronze dragons as if they were a recent kill and Bluebeard was protecting them from predators.

As the dragon’s head swiveled back and forth, its good eye caught sight of Satya and Hero, and blinked. 

Or was it winked? 

I’ll deal with you later, Bluebeard seemed to say.

“Let’s wait and see what Bluebeard does,” Clay whispered to Ariella, knowing that Ariella still had not fully recovered from the first encounter with Bluebeard. 
A second fight was to be avoided if possible. 

Ariella, he sensed, felt the same way.

But Bluebeard appeared not to be interested in them.

Instead, the dragon focused on Ms. Mauvais, the woman who more than anyone else was responsible for this place and for the dragons’ captivity. 

She, it seemed, was the reason for Bluebeard’s visit. 

The dragon dropped back down on all fours and advanced on her.

Ms. Mauvais maintained her perfectly calm expression as Bluebeard pushed her back toward the trailer. 

“Gyorg, Flint, somebody, do something,” she said, with only the barest hint of urgency.

Just as the dragon was about to reach her, its huge mouth open, Ms. Mauvais finally lost her composure. 

She shrieked and shoved Gyorg in the dragon’s path.

Gyorg had no time to register his employer’s betrayal before Bluebeard’s great sharp jaws grabbed the muscleman around the middle and tossed him aside. 

As though nothing had happened, Bluebeard resumed its advance on Ms. Mauvais, its single eye glistening.

“Stop, dragon!”

It was Flint, intervening at the last second—perhaps to save Ms. Mauvais, perhaps to show off. 

Clay couldn’t tell.

With his eyes locked on Bluebeard, Flint touched his lips to his fist. 

In a flash, his fist was on fire. 

Raising it in the air like a torch, he waved it back and forth in front of Bluebeard’s good eye.

“Get down!” said Flint, as if he were speaking to a dog.

Then, shocking Clay and probably everyone else present, human or dragon, Bluebeard knelt down. 

Not bowing out of politeness or respect, as Ariella had done, but in submission, as a weaker creature kneels before a more powerful one.

“That’s right, there’s a good boy,” said Flint, smiling victoriously.

Clay could feel waves of anger coming from Ariella; it was unbearable to see a dragon humiliated by a human in this way.

It matters not, said Ariella spitefully. 

The dragon is a Lost One.

When the debased dragon had almost flattened itself to the ground, Flint offered a cocky a little wave to the people watching, then climbed onto Bluebeard’s back. 

“Bye-bye, fools!”

Flint kicked into the dragon’s sides. 

Bluebeard reared slightly, then rounded on the trailer, giving it one final blast of fire.

Then, with Flint astride, Bluebeard rose up and took off into the night sky.

“Good riddance,” said Satya.

Clay watched for a moment, stunned. 

He thought he knew what he’d just witnessed: a kind of black magic that was described in the Occulta Draco, the magic of the Fire Breathers. 

But where Flint was heading now, Clay had no idea. 

Wherever it was, it wasn’t far enough.

In Bluebeard’s place, other dragons began swirling around the smoldering remains of the trailer. 

Clay caught Ms. Mauvais staring at them, with something almost like fear on her frozen face.

“You want to come with us instead of being stuck with those guys?” said Clay. 

“You’d have to be tied up, of course. And if you tried to hurt anyone, Ariella would probably kill you.…”

“And be the prisoner of the Terces Society?” said the leader of the Midnight Sun, with all the haughtiness at her command. 

“I’d rather die.”

Clay looked up at the thickening mass of dragons circling directly above. 

“Okay, if that’s what you want.”

He turned to Satya. 

“Let’s get the heck out of here.”

Using Ariella’s leg as a ladder, they climbed onto the dragon’s back.

A moment later, they were lifting off into the night. 

It was like swimming against a current; around them, dozens of dragons were diving toward a single goal.

Looking over his shoulder for a last time, Clay saw a pair of gloved hands, unmistakably Ms. Mauvais’s, waving in the air. 

There was a scream of pain that sounded strangely like a cry of joy. 

Then the hands disappeared and she was lost in the vortex of roaring, screeching dragons bearing down on her.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX 

THE OTHER SIDE OF THE COIN

Now that they had recovered from the fear of attack, the littlest dragons had left Ariella’s back and were flying behind with Houdini and Bodhi.

Unlike Satya, Ariella was somehow able to make the unruly young dragons stay in a single line, although a straight line admittedly it was not.

No, they did not look anything like ducklings (not even ugly ducklings). 

And few people would call them cute or cuddly. 

Nonetheless, the people watching them couldn’t help smiling.

With the little dragons trailing behind, Clay guided Ariella out of the crater, to the landing strip just on the other side of the crater’s rim. 

They coasted down to the asphalt stretch, just before the second helicopter that belonged to the Midnight Sun, and parked by a row of Cessnas.

Behind Ariella, dark figures were erupting over the side of the crater, flying up into the starry night. 

The dragons—they were leaving.

“I think the dragons are almost as happy to get out of there as I am,” said Clay, watching. 

“What about you?”

Satya looked up at him with her dark eyes hinting at a smile. 

“There are some things I’ll miss.”

Clay felt himself turning red. 

“So,” he said, looking down at the scaly dragon back beneath them. 

“About that kiss. Would you maybe want to try again—even if we’re not about to die?”

“Smooth line,” said Brett.

“Yeah, real classy,” said Leira.

Clay’s ears were burning pink.

Satya laughed. 

“Sure,” she said. 

“But no gum chewing this time. And don’t you want to take off your helmet?”

Quickly, Clay removed the helmet.

“And maybe the ski hat, too, while you’re at it?”

“Wait, no, don’t ruin our fun!”

Clay emphatically pulled off his hat. 

His hair was messier than ever.

Satya looked at him critically. 

“That’s better, although I have to say I’m curious to see what you look like with your hair brushed.”

“The truth? I look exactly the same.”

“Well, then I guess there’s no reason to wait any longer, is there?”

She closed her eyes and Clay leaned in. 

Now that he wasn’t chewing, he could appreciate how soft her lips were and how nice she smelled. 

After a moment, Hero started squawking and scratching.

Satya sat back, beaming. 

“Darn bird,” she complained.

Clay felt like he might float away.

Except that he could still hear the sounds of Leira and Brett laughing and cheering coming from the ski hat bunched up in his hand.

Ariella made a noise that was suspiciously like a human cough.

Isn’t it time for you two to disembark?

In the not-too-far distance, a Land Rover was heading toward them from the crater, leaving a wake of dust and sand behind. 

The vehicle was packed with employees, or former employees, of the Keep. 

They looked like refugees.

Vicente waved from the window. 

Satya waved back.

“Me too?” Clay asked Ariella. 

“Aren’t you taking me home?”

That wasn’t part of the bargain. 

Besides, I have to take these little creatures home. 

Ariella nodded fondly in the direction of the young dragons frolicking on the tarmac.

“You mean you’re taking them to the Other Side.…”

Of course, he’d known it all along, but the reality suddenly hit Clay: When he’d agreed to let the dragons shut off access to the Other Side, permanently, he was saying good-bye to all of them. 

Including Ariella.

“I guess you could come with us,” said Satya as they climbed down from the dragon. 

“But it looks like it’s going to be a tight squeeze.”

As the Land Rover pulled up beside them, a sound came from above. 

They covered their eyes to peer out into the night sky.

Something with blinking lights was approaching, flying in the opposite direction from all the dragons.

“That’s not your dad’s seaplane, is it?” asked Vicente, hopping out of the Land Rover.

Hardly daring to hope, Clay stared at the plane as it came to a rest about fifty yards down the tarmac.

“I don’t seem to remember that thing having such big wheels,” Vicente said.

Although, as you know, it didn’t actually belong to Clay’s dad, it was the seaplane, all right. 

But there was something different about it. 

Where before there had been long skis attached to the bottom of the plane, to keep it afloat in water, there were now four almost absurdly large wheels that looked like they had been pulled from a tractor.

“Well, now that your ride is here, we’d all better get going. I’ll give you two a minute to say good-bye.” 

Vicente shook Clay’s hand, then started walking back to the Land Rover.

“Where will you guys go?”

“To another animal park, probably,” Satya said. 

“But, you know, with animals.”

“Yeah, I guess that might work out better,” said Clay.

She gave Clay a quick squeeze. 

Then she and Hero went off to join her father.

Clay watched them go. 

Then he walked toward the weirdly repaired seaplane.

Owen met him with a hug. 

“I’m guessing the fact that you’re alive means you were successful?”

“Mostly,” said Clay, thinking about Flint and a few other loose ends.

“Mostly is usually as good as it gets.”

Clay nodded at the truth of this. 

“So you got your plane out of the lava.”

“Mostly…” 

He grinned, gesturing at the big wheels that had replaced the seaplane’s skis. 

“And that’s not the only surprise.…”

I think I’ve had enough surprises, Clay thought. 

“Yeah, what else?” he asked warily.

Clay heard him before he saw him, sneezing and grumbling to himself as he stepped out of the plane: “It’s all those dragons.… I must be allergic! Can you be allergic to dragons? What’s the collective noun for dragons, anyway? Not a flock. Maybe a herd…”

“Max-Ernest?”

Max-Ernest smiled sheepishly at his little brother. 

“Guilty as charged.”

As they followed Owen back into the plane, Clay thought about how angry he’d been at Max-Ernest. 

For abandoning him for so many years, then avoiding him and not talking to him when they were finally reunited. 

For being so overprotective one minute, and then the next minute sending Clay on a crazy mission into the nest of the Midnight Sun. 

For so many things.

But he was too tired to confront his brother. 

Besides, there would be plenty of time to yell at Max-Ernest later, and Max-Ernest would have to grin and bear it; they’d be stuck in the plane for hours.

“Sorry it took me so long to get to you,” said his brother when they were seated: Max-Ernest in the copilot’s seat, Clay crouched behind. 

“As soon as I heard you were out here alone—I mean the first time you were here—I started looking for a ride to Earth Ranch. Only it’s pretty hard to find any ships going anywhere near Price Island. So I had to settle for sitting in the hold of a Japanese fishing ship. Then rowing five miles…”

“You rowed five miles?” asked Clay skeptically.

“Well, one of the fishermen did,” Max-Ernest admitted.

Clay wrinkled his nose. 

“Did you even shower afterward? You smell like crap.”

“Not crap… carp. Which is an—”

“Anagram,” Clay finished. 

“I remember.”

Max-Ernest smiled. 

“Well, I taught you something, at least.”

Clay laughed.

“So… I met Pietro,” he said after a while.

Max-Ernest looked at him askance. 

“Pietro? But he’s…”

“On the Other Side. Uh-huh. He told me he left you something in the lining of your hat. When you get home, you should look.”

Max-Ernest eyed Clay, trying to ascertain whether his younger brother was pulling his leg.

“Actually, the hat’s right in here,” said Max-Ernest. 

“I never travel without it, remember?” 

He unzipped a battered black leather valise that looked like an old doctor’s bag, and pulled out what resembled a black Frisbee.

He shook it once; it popped into a top hat. 

“How ’bout that?”

“Nice,” said Clay admiringly. 

“I forgot it did that.”

“Now, let’s see what we’ve got here.”

Max-Ernest put the hat on his lap and started feeling around. 

“Seems a little odd that I wouldn’t have found something that Pietro left in the hat over twelve years ago, but you never know, I guess.” 

There were several hidden pockets in the hat, and Max-Ernest started pulling out one thing after another: three playing cards (an ace, a king, and a joker); a half dozen magician’s “silks” (i.e., scarves); numerous chocolate-bar wrappers (Clay saw jokes scribbled on a few of them, as well as a set list of tricks); a wilted carrot top (left there by Quiche the rabbit, no doubt); and what was unmistakably a pair of underwear (always good to have a spare, right?). 

From the very bottom, Max-Ernest scooped out a handful of coins, which he was on the verge of pocketing, when he stopped and held a nickel up to the light.

He flipped it around between his fingers, frowning. 

“Could this be what Pietro was talking about? I’m pretty sure it’s not mine.…”

“What is it?” 

Clay asked.

“A trick coin. Both sides are tails. See?” 

Max-Ernest handed it to Clay.

“But why would he leave it for me? You can get them in any magic store in the country. They’re a dime a dozen. Well, a nickel a dozen in this case.”

Clay tried to hand the coin back, but Max-Ernest wouldn’t take it. 

He was obviously disappointed.

“You know, he was like a second father to me, Pietro,” he said, shaking his head. 

“Then one day, poof, he’s gone. All he leaves is a note saying he’s going to the Other Side, and I never see him again.”

Yeah, that sucks when somebody leaves like that, thought Clay, but with none of his usual anger.

“And now he wants me to have this old trick coin?” Max-Ernest complained.

“Is that supposed to make me feel better? Remember him fondly?”

“Maybe it was like a good-luck charm for him?” Clay guessed.

“Maybe…” 

Max-Ernest shook off his grim mood and smiled. 

“Anyway, you keep it. If it gives you good luck, that’s enough good luck for me.”

“Okay, um, thanks,” said Clay, pocketing the coin.

“You know the real reason I’ve been avoiding you, don’t you?” said Max-Ernest suddenly.

“Uh, not really,” said Clay, startled by the sudden turn of the conversation.

“Because I feel guilty for abandoning you.”

Clay raised his eyebrows. 

“So basically you’re saying you abandoned me because you abandoned me?”

“Makes a lot of sense, I know.” 

Max-Ernest made the embarrassed half-laughing sound he made sometimes. 

Hmghh. 

“I won’t do it again.”

“Good… You know, you didn’t really have to take care of me when you were a kid, but you did,” Clay added after a moment. 

“So there’s that.”

“Sure I had to,” Max-Ernest protested. 

“You’re my brother!”

Clay shrugged, smiling. 

“Okay, fine. You had to. I guess that means you still have to.”

Owen, who’d kept silent while the two brothers talked, now pointed out the window. 

“Look—”

Clay peered out the glass and saw a flock of birds flying in perfect formation back in the direction of the crater.

Earth Ranch might have been a magic camp, but it wasn’t often that people performed magic in Big Yurt. 

Not stage magic, anyway.

When you could really read minds, seeing somebody pick your card out of a deck wasn’t all that impressive. 

When you could levitate somebody with a spell, levitating someone with strings seemed a little pointless. 

As for the two-tailed coin, that hardly counted as a magic trick at all.

Nonetheless, the campers were charmed by Clay and Max-Ernest’s show. 

They laughed a lot, anyway—sometimes at the two brothers, sometimes with them, and sometimes both.

For Max-Ernest, the performance was bittersweet, reminding him of the shows he had put on with Clay when Clay was five or six, and Max-Ernest not much older than Clay was now; but also, he was reminded of Pietro and his childhood performances with his brother, Luciano, the story of which had helped inspire Max-Ernest’s own magic career, such as it was.

For Clay, it was bittersweet also. 

Sure, it had been fun, but he had the sense that it was the last time he would perform onstage.

That was his brother’s thing, not his. 

If there was magic in Clay’s future, it wasn’t the sort you did for an audience.

Afterward, Clay took Como for a walk up Nose Peak. 

With Como sitting on the ground beside him, Clay sat on the rock, watching the sun set, much as he’d watched the sun rise on so many mornings.

And then, as before, the ever-sharp llama nudged him: In the far distance, in the middle of a pink cloud, there was a tiny speck. 

Clay could just make out the shape of wings, and for a second he thought it might be Ariella. 

But of course it wasn’t; it was Owen. 

Owen had delivered Clay and Max-Ernest to camp more than a week ago and then left the next day on a supply run. 

Now it was time for him to take Cass and Max-Ernest away for good.

As he watched the plane grow bigger and bigger, Clay idly flipped Pietro’s coin in the air over and over, letting it land in his open palm.

Tails.

Tails.

Tails.

Always the same side.

Suddenly, he closed his fist around the coin.

“That’s it!” he exclaimed.

“There’s no other side!”

The llama looked blankly at him. 

Clay shook his head—“Never mind, no importa, it’s a human thing”—but his mind buzzed with excitement.

He had figured out Pietro’s message; he was sure of it.

Sometimes trying to get to the Other Side would get you nowhere; sometimes you had to bet on the side you were already on.

Clay jumped off the rock. 

He couldn’t wait to tell Max-Ernest about his discovery.

With the irritated llama trotting behind, Clay ran down the hill, then jumped onto his newly repaired garbage-lid sled.

As fast as he could, he slid down the scree-covered slope. 

But he slowed a little when he got near the bottom, allowing himself to enjoy the end of the ride.

There was no need to rush, he told himself. 

Max-Ernest would never leave again without saying good-bye. 

APPENDIX

ENTOMOPHAGY: THE EATING OF INSECTS

Insects can be a great source of protein on the fly, so to speak. 

To get a significant amount of nutrition from most bugs, however, it’s vital to eat more than one. 

A lot more. 

The nutrition facts below are based on a 100-gram (3.5-ounce) serving. 

Since ants can weigh as little as 1 milligram, a proper serving might be as many as 100,000. 

Of course, if you cover those ants in chocolate, as people do in many parts of the world, you won’t have to eat nearly as many, and I think you’ll agree they taste much better. 

ANTS (RED ANT)

Nutrition Facts

Serving Size 100g

Amount Per Serving% Daily Value*

Fat 3.5g 5%

Carbohydrates 2.9 .01%

Protein 13.9g 28% * 

Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000-calorie diet. 

Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs.

Iron 5.7g

Calcium 47.8mg 

BEETLES (GIANT WATER)*

Nutrition Facts

Serving Size 100g

Amount Per Serving % Daily Value*

Fat 8.3g 13%

Carbohydrates 2.1g .01%

Protein 19.8g 40% 

*Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000-calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs.

Iron 13.6g

Calcium 43.5mg 

TARANTULA (LARGE)*

Nutrition Facts

Serving Size 100g

Amount Per Serving 

% 

Daily 

Value*

Fat 10g 15%

Carbohydrates 2g 0.1%

Protein 63g 126% 

* Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000-calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs.

BAD WORDS

When Clay was a little boy, he and his brother used to call magic words bad words. 

To eliminate any lingering confusion, I am supplying a list of actual bad words. 

Use sparingly. 

For actual magic words you’ll have to consult someone else.

XXXX

XXXX

XXXXXX

XXXX

XXXXX

DEADLINE

XXXXXX

EDITOR

XXXXXX

EMPTY (when applied to box of chocolates or chocolate wrapper)

XXXX

XXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

GLOVE (white color assumed)

XXXXXX

MIDNIGHT SUN

MS. MAUVAIS

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXX

SHARE

XXXXX

XXXXX

THAT SOUND QUICHE MAKES WHEN HE’S OUT OF CARROTS

THAT WORSE SOUND PB MAKES WHEN HE’S OUT OF CHOCOLATE

XXXXXXX

VANILLA

WORK

XXXXXX

&^@!#%#$!

DRAGONS OF THE WORLD: A MAGIC TRICK

As you know, most dragons left our planet long ago. 

But I, Pseudonymous Bosch, sometimes known as the Great Boschini, have secretly implanted a dragon in your brain, and I have hidden it among the names of dragons from all over the world. 

To find this dragon rose among dragon thorns, carefully follow these instructions: First, choose a two-digit number.Add the two digits together.

Then subtract the sum from your original number.

(In other words, if your original number was 24, you add 2 and 4, then take the sum of those numbers—i.e., 6—and subtract it from 24.)

Last, take the number you end up with and find the corresponding dragon.

0. Dreq
1. Ryū
2. Neak
3. Dreq
4. Imoogi
5. Gyo
6. Neak
7. Lindworm
8. Neak
9. Ariella
10. Lindworm
11. Wyvern
12. Imoogi
13. Zilant
14. Imoogi
15. Slibinas
16. Wyvern
17. Ryū
18. Ariella
19. Dreq
20. Wyvern
21. Zilant
22.  Gyo
23. Ryū
24. Wyvern
25. Dreq
26. Lindworm
27. Ariella
28. Wyvern
29. Zilant
30. Slibinas
31. Neak
32. Wyvern
33. Ryū
34. Zilant
35. Imoogi
36. Ariella
37. Lindworm
38. Imoogi
39. Wyvern
40. Ryū
41. Zilant
42. Dreq
43. Slibinas
44. Ryū
45. Ariella
46. Imoogi
47. Ryū
48. Lindworm
49. Dreq
50. Zilant
51. Ryū
52. Gyo
53. Slibinas
54. Ariella
55. Slibinas
56. Ryū
57. Lindworm
58. Gyo
59. Neak
60. Ryū
61. Neak
62. Dreq
63. Ariella
64. Lindworm
65. Ryū
66. Imoogi
67. Ryū
68. Wyvern
69. Gyo
70. Slibinas
71. Ryū
72. Ariella
73. Dreq
74. Zilant
75. Ryū
76. Zilant
77. Wyvern
78. Ryū
79. Wyvern
80. Dreq
81. Ariella
82. Wyvern
83. Gyo
84. Dreq
85. Neak
86. Zilant
87. Lindworm
88. Wyvern
89. Lindworm
90. Ariella
91. Imoogi
92. Ryū
93. Zilant
94. Dreq
95. Slibinas
96. Dreq
97. Zilant
98. Neak
99. Zilant

Now turn the page to reveal the hidden dragon.

Et voilà! 

The dragon you wound up with was ARIELLA. 

How can I control your mind all the way from my secret hideaway? 

A good magician never reveals his tricks. 

But I am not a good magician, so I will give you this hint: Go back and follow the instructions a second time, choosing a different number, and see what result you get.

Better yet, go back to the beginning of the book.

Looking for your next adventure?

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

One of the best worst things about writing anonymously, pseudonymously, and surreptitiously, as I do, is that I get to have to pretend that I write my books entirely by myself. 

As much as I might want to give credit where it’s due, it is far safer for me to stay quiet. 

Any name I might mention is one more way for my enemies to try to track me down.

Nonetheless, after nine books, it is perhaps time to say a word or two on behalf of those who have supported me on the road to literary greatness. 

Or so the rabbit typing these words for me very strongly suggests. 

Who has been there, year after year, slaving away by your side, Quiche asks, always ready to lend a hand, or foot, or paw?

Well, Quiche, I hate to admit it, but you’re right. 

It would be shameful not to acknowledge the hard work and dedication of the people who make the chocolate that sustains me as I—Tussle—Quiche abandons typewriter—Pseudonymous takes over.

It seems that I have offended my rabbit somehow. 

Evidently, Quiche was not saying I should thank the chocolatiers of the world. 

Perhaps he meant the carrot farmers? 

What’s that, Quiche—I should be thinking of something furry that lives in a top hat? 

Hmm. 

Do you mean I should be checking my hat for mold? 

It does need cleaning.…

If not chocolatiers, I suppose there are a few others I should thank. 

True, I’d rather not reveal their names, but perhaps I could put them at the bottom of the page. 

In very small type.

It seems fitting that I end this book with a footnote. *

* NOTE: THE WOMAN HERSELF DID NOT FEEL SQUEAMISH ABOUT THE SUBJECT. IT IS THIS AUTHOR WHO PREFERS NOT TO GO INTO THE INTRICACIES OF HOW TO PRESERVE AND TREAT URINE IN SUCH A WAY AS TO MAKE IT POTABLE. (AND, YES, IF YOU MUST KNOW, POTABLE MEANS “DRINKABLE.”) IN HER MOISTURE-CONSERVATION EFFORTS, OUR INTREPID DESERT CROSSER WAS INSPIRED, I BELIEVE, BY THE FAMOUS SCIENCE-FICTION NOVEL DUNE. HER JUMPSUIT BORE A DISTINCT RESEMBLANCE TO THE STILLSUITS WORN BY NATIVES OF DUNE’S DESERT PLANET, ARRAKIS. UNFORTUNATELY, HER SUIT DIDN’T WORK NEARLY AS WELL AS THE ORIGINAL FICTIONAL VERSIONS.

* THE NAMIB DESERT BEETLE IS NOTABLE FOR AN ODD BUT INGENIOUS ADAPTATION TO ITS ARID ENVIRONMENT. THE SHELL OF A NAMIB COLLECTS MOISTURE FROM THE AIR, WHICH THEN CONDENSES AND DRIPS INTO THE BEETLE’S MOUTH.

* MOWGLI, AS YOU MAY KNOW, IS THE HERO OF THE JUNGLE BOOK—A COLLECTION OF STORIES WRITTEN MORE THAN A HUNDRED YEARS AGO BY RUDYARD KIPLING AND MADE FAMOUS IN OUR TIME BY A CERTAIN CARTOON KINGDOM FAMILIARLY KNOWN AS THE MOUSE HOUSE. MOWGLI IS A FERAL, I.E. WILD, BOY WHO GROWS UP IN THE JUNGLE, TALKING TO ANIMALS. I’M SURE YOUR BEHAVIOR IS ALWAYS PERFECTLY CIVILIZED, BUT IF YOU WERE EVER TO LAPSE—MOMENTARILY—INTO BAD MANNERS, YOU MIGHT FIND A STERN ADULT ASKING IF YOU WERE “RAISED BY WOLVES”—A COMMON MOWGLI REFERENCE THAT WOLVES NO DOUBT FIND VERY INSULTING.

* IT GOES WITHOUT SAYING THAT I, ER, RATHER, MAX-ERNEST, MIGHT NOT AGREE THAT HE IS A HYPERCAUTIOUS HYPOCHONDRIAC. (HE WOULD MORE LIKELY CONSIDER HIMSELF A JUDICIOUS MEDICAL EXPERT.) HOWEVER, I HAVE TO SAY I LIKE THE ALLITERATION.

* A BAROMETER MEASURES ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE, MUCH LIKE YOUR GRANDPA’S KNEE, WHICH SHOUTS “HEY, A STORM’S COMING!” EVERY TIME A STORM IS COMING. GRANDPA’S NOT KIDDING—OR NOT COMPLETELY. CHANGES IN ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE AND AGING JOINTS OFTEN HERALD SHIFTS IN THE WEATHER. CHANGES IN MAGICAL PRESSURE, ON THE OTHER HAND, CAN HERALD JUST ABOUT ANYTHING: VOLCANIC ACTIVITY, DRAGONS, PLOT TWISTS.…

* AS DILIGENT READERS WILL REMEMBER, RANDOLPH PRICE WAS A POOR STREET URCHIN WHO STUMBLED ON THE LOST SECRETS OF THE ALCHEMISTS. WHEN HE GOT OLDER, HE USED HIS KNOWLEDGE OF MAGIC TO SPECULATE ON THE STOCK MARKET, EVENTUALLY AMASSING ENOUGH WEALTH TO BUY HIS OWN PRIVATE ISLAND. HIS STORY IS TOLD IN BAD MAGIC, IN WHICH NOVEL ALL HIS SECRETS ARE REVEALED. IF YOU READ IT, YOU WILL BECOME AS RICH AS HE WAS. (MAYBE.)

* IN RETROSPECT, IT WASN’T SUCH A GOOD IDEA TO GET LOST IN THE PARK OR CUT HIS PINKIE FINGER “JUST FOR PRACTICE,” BUT HOW WAS CASS TO KNOW HE WOULD ATTEMPT THOSE THINGS? SHE WAS ONLY TRYING TO HELP.

* HUBRIS, OR EXCEEDING PRIDE, USUALLY LEADING TO A FALL, IS OFTEN EXHIBITED BY THE VILLAINS IN NARRATIVES FOR YOUNG READERS. THESE GLOVED NE’ER-DO-WELLS WILL UNDERESTIMATE THE SLEUTHING PROWESS OF, SAY, A YOUNG SPIKY-HAIRED MAGICIAN, A POINTY-EARED SURVIVALIST, OR A SKATEBOARDING GRAFFITI ARTIST, AND SO BE THWARTED BOOK AFTER BOOK, SERIES AFTER SERIES.

* AIR LOOKS WAVY OVER HOT SURFACES BECAUSE OF A PHENOMENON CALLED REFRACTION. HOT AIR IS LESS DENSE THAN COOL AIR, SO LIGHT SPEEDS UP WHEN IT REACHES A HOT SURFACE AND THEN CURVES UPWARD. AS A RESULT, WE SEE WAVES. THIS HAPPENS OVER HOT ASPHALT OR A BARBECUE GRILL, OR AROUND A DRAGON’S FIERY BREATH.

* THE HIMALAYAN COUSIN OF THE AMERICAN BIGFOOT, THE ABOMINABLE SNOWMAN, OR YETI, IS A CREATURE OUT OF CRYPTOZOOLOGY, THE STUDY OF MYTHICAL UNCONFIRMED ANIMALS SUCH AS BIGFOOT, THE LOCH NESS MONSTER, CHUPACABRAS, AND EVEN DRAGONS. SIGHTINGS OF THIS MASSIVE, WHITE-FURRED APE-LIKE BEAST GO BACK HUNDREDS OF YEARS, BUT AS OF YET, THERE IS NO FIRM SCIENTIFIC EXPLANATION FOR THE MOUNTAINOUS MONSTER OF THE SNOW. THERE’S EVEN LESS PEER-REVIEWED RESEARCH ON THE ABOMINABLE SANDMAN, WHICH IS WHOLLY MADE UP.

* THE ANSWER IS VERY LIKELY NONE, THOUGH SCIENTISTS ONCE BUILT SOMETHING CALLED BIOSPHERE 2, A VIVARIUM, OR ECOLOGICALLY CLOSED SYSTEM (EVERYTHING INSIDE WAS RECYCLED AND REUSED), WHERE EIGHT PEOPLE LIVED TOGETHER FOR TWO YEARS. THE EXPERIMENT FELL APART WHEN THE INHABITANTS STARTED SQUABBLING—NOT A SURPRISE TO ANYONE WHO HAS EVER LIVED WITH OTHER HUMAN BEINGS. BUT BIOSPHERE 2 WAS A GIANT GREENHOUSE, NOT A CRATER, SO LET’S GIVE THE MIDNIGHT SUN CREDIT FOR TRYING SOMETHING NEW. NEVER MIND THE DRAGONS.

* CRENELS ARE OPENINGS CUT INTO THE WALL-TOPS OF CASTLES, KEEPS, TURRETS, AND SNOW FORTS. CRENELLATION ALLOWS THE DEFENDERS OF THESE IMPORTANT BUILDINGS TO SHOOT ARROWS, POUR BOILING OIL, OR THROW SNOWBALLS AT THEIR ENEMIES, BE THEY DRAGONS, VISIGOTHS, OR OLDER BROTHERS, AND THEN TO HIDE FROM THEIR PREDICTABLY ANGRY RESPONSE.

* BEOWULF IS THE TITLE AND HERO OF THE OLDEST KNOWN EPIC POEM IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. HE FIGHTS A DRAGON (OR WYRM) AFTER ALREADY FIGHTING A MONSTER (GRENDEL) AND THEN ANOTHER MONSTER (GRENDEL’S MOTHER). ONE SHOULD NEVER ENDEAVOR TO BATTLE A DRAGON, BUT IF ONE MUST, ONE SHOULD DO IT FRESH AND SAVE OTHER MONSTERS FOR LATER. BEOWULF IS BESTED BY THE DRAGON, WHO HAS RULED OUR IMAGINATIONS EVER SINCE. THIS POEM’S WYRM IS THE ORIGIN OF MANY MODERN DRAGON MYTHS POSSIBLE TRUTHS: SUCH AS FIRE-BREATHING AND TREASURE HOARDING. J. R. R. TOLKIEN USED BEOWULF’S DRAGON AS INSPIRATION FOR SMAUG, THE DRAGON OBSTACLE IN THE NOVEL THE HOBBIT AND ALL FORTY-SEVEN HOBBIT FILMS.

* NEVER? I CONFESS THAT IS AN EXAGGERATION. BUT IT’S TRUE THAT CLAY WAS NOT ONE FOR THE SOCIAL NICETIES. (HERE’S A REASON TO PRACTICE YOUR MANNERS, IF YOU NEED ONE: GOOD MANNERS CAN MASK ALL SORTS OF DEVIOUSNESS AND SUBTERFUGE.)

* WHEN SCRYING, A FORTUNE-TELLER LOOKS INTO A REFLECTIVE SURFACE TO SEE A FUTURE, PAST, OR SIMPLY DISTANT EVENT. TYPICALLY, THIS IS DONE WITH A MIRROR OR CRYSTAL BALL, BUT ONE CAN SCRY WITH ANY OLD REFLECTIVE OBJECT LYING AROUND THE HOUSE—A LICKED-CLEAN CHOCOLATE WRAPPER, SAY. JONAH USES A TOILET BOWL. HOWEVER, I DON’T SUGGEST YOU FOLLOW HIS LEAD UNLESS THE PAST YOU WANT TO SEE HAPPENS TO BE YOUR LAST MEAL.

* SMOKING A BEEHIVE CALMS THE BEES SO THAT THEY ARE LESS LIKELY TO STING YOU. BLOW SMOKE IN THE FACE OF ALMOST ANY OTHER CREATURE, HOWEVER, AND YOU WILL GET A VERY DIFFERENT REACTION.

* MORE OR LESS. TIME IS NOT MY STRONG SUIT.

* A METAL GLOVE LIKE THIS IS CALLED A GAUNTLET, A WORD YOU MAY RECOGNIZE FROM THE PHRASE THROW DOWN THE GAUNTLET. AND YET IT WAS THE DOUBLE-SIDED AX, KNOWN AS A FRANCISCA, THAT A MEDIEVAL KNIGHT WAS MORE LIKELY TO THROW BEFORE HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT COMMENCED. THE GAUNTLET HE KEPT ON, TO PROTECT HIS FINGERNAILS FROM CHIPPING. KNIGHTS, I’M TOLD, WERE VERY PARTICULAR ABOUT THEIR MANICURES.

* HACKLES ARE ERRANT FEATHERS ALONG A ROOSTER’S BACK. THEY CAN ALSO REFER TO COWLICK HAIRS ON A DOG’S NECK, WHICH STAND UP WITH ANNOYANCE OR FEAR. AGITATING THINGS ARE SAID TO RAISE ONE’S HACKLES. NEVER RAISE A DRAGON’S HACKLES. A HACKLE FEATHER IS ALSO USED WHEN FISHING. BUT INFORMATION ON THAT IS JUST AS BORING AS ACTUAL FISHING.

* IT WAS INDEED A DRAGON SWEAR, WHICH I WOULDN’T DARE REPEAT IN PRINT. NOR COULD I. THE REAL LANGUAGE OF DRAGONS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT CAN BE REPRODUCED IN ROMAN LETTERS.

* YOU’VE PROBABLY HEARD THAT YOU SHOULDN’T JUMP JUST BECAUSE A FRIEND TELLS YOU TO JUMP. BUT WHEN THE FRIEND IS A DRAGON, IT’S A LITTLE DIFFERENT… EVEN IF TECHNICALLY YOU CAN’T BE FRIENDS WITH A DRAGON.

* RENÉ MAGRITTE WAS A TWENTIETH-CENTURY SURREALIST PAINTER WHOSE WORK CELEBRATED THE ABSURD WITH WIT AND BOWLER HATS. SEE ESPECIALLY THE PAINTING GOLCONDA, WHICH DEPICTS DOZENS OF MEN IN COATS AND HATS, FLOATING OVER A SUBURBAN STREETSCAPE. ANOTHER FAMOUS MAGRITTE WORK, WHICH CERTAIN MAGICIANS, AUTHORS, AND SECRET-SOCIETY MEMBERS MIGHT APPRECIATE, IS THE TREACHERY OF IMAGES: A PAINTING OF A PIPE ABOVE THE PHRASE CECI N’EST PAS UNE PIPE. IF YOU DON’T SPEAK FRENCH, IT’S JUST AS BEWILDERING IN ENGLISH. TRANSLATION: “THIS IS NOT A PIPE.” SOMETIMES, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION BELOW A WORK OF ART CAN CREATE GREATER CONFUSION, BUT I DIGRESS.

* IN THE OLDEN DAYS, BEFORE PHONES WERE THINGS THAT YOU PUT IN YOUR POCKET, A TELEPHONE HAD TWO MAJOR PARTS: THE MAIN BODY OF THE TELEPHONE, ON WHICH YOU FOUND THE TELEPHONE DIAL; AND THE RECEIVER, WHICH HAD A MOUTHPIECE AND AN EARPIECE SO THAT PRIMITIVE PEOPLES COULD SPEAK TO EACH OTHER—EVEN WITHOUT THE ABILITY TO TEXT. THE RECEIVER WAS CONNECTED TO THE REST OF THE PHONE WITH A CURLING CORD, LIKE THE ONE DANGLING IN THE PARAGRAPH ABOVE.

* I KNOW THIS NOT TO BE TRUE; CASS WAS AFRAID OF PLENTY OF THINGS. DEHYDRATION. CERTAIN EXTINCTION-LEVEL EVENTS. PLASTIC BAGS. I AM MERELY TRYING TO CONVEY SATYA’S STATE OF MIND.

* WE MAY EXTRAPOLATE THAT THE NUTRITIONAL VALUE OF NAMIB DESERT BEETLES WOULD BE SIMILAR.

* TECHNICALLY, OF COURSE, TARANTULAS ARE NOT INSECTS; THEY ARE ARACHNIDS. NEVERTHELESS, THEY ARE REPUTEDLY DELICIOUS.

* AN UNPRONOUNCEABLE BUT UNMISTAKABLE DRAGON CURSE.

* THESE DRAGONS INCLUDE DREQ (ALBANIAN DRAGON), RYŪ (JAPANESE DRAGON ASSOCIATED WITH WATER AND GRANTING WISHES), NEAK (KHMER DRAGON WITH CHARACTERISTICS OF A COBRA), IMOOGI (KOREAN OCEAN DRAGON), GYO (KOREAN MOUNTAIN DRAGON), LINDWORM (SCANDINAVIAN SERPENTINE DRAGON), WYVERN (A TWO-LEGGED DRAGON MOST OFTEN SEEN IN MEDIEVAL HERALDRY), ZILANT (THE LEGENDARY DRAGON THAT SYMBOLIZED THE POWER OF THE KAZAN TARTARS), AND SLIBINAS (LITHUANIAN HYDRA-HEADED, I.E. MULTIHEADED, DRAGON).

* WARNING: THIS FOOTNOTE IS GOING TO BE VERY LONG. I HAVE TEN YEARS’ WORTH OF THANK-YOUS TO COVER. IF THAT SOUNDS DAUNTING, OR IF YOU HAPPEN BE PART OF A SINISTER SECRET SOCIETY WITH THE INITIALS MS, PLEASE TURN AWAY. 

PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH WAS BORN NOT WITH A BOOK BUT WITH A SERIES OF LETTERS THAT I WROTE TO A FOURTH GRADER NAMED MAY, AS PART OF HER SCHOOL’S ADULT VOLUNTEER PROGRAM, WRITING PARTNERS. 

AT THE TIME, I HAD NO IDEA THAT MY MUSINGS ABOUT SECRETS, CHOCOLATE, AND THE PLEASURES AND PITFALLS OF PROCRASTINATION WOULD LEAD TO A NOVEL CALLED THE NAME OF THIS BOOK IS SECRET, LET ALONE TO THE SECRET SERIES OR THE BAD BOOKS. 

IF ANYONE HAD AN INKLING, IT WAS MAY’S MOTHER, MY FRIEND MARGARET STOHL, WHO’D FORCED ME TO VOLUNTEER AT HER DAUGHTER’S SCHOOL IN THE FIRST PLACE. 

IN THE YEARS SINCE, MARGIE HAS ALWAYS BEEN THE ONE TO PUSH ME KICKING AND SCREAMING OVER THE FINISH LINE WHENEVER A BOOK IS DUE. 

THUS MY BOOKS CAN TRULY BE SAID TO BEGIN AND END WITH HER. 

AT THE RISK OF BREAKING AN UNSPOKEN RULE, THANK YOU, MARGIE. 

YOU ARE THE BEST FRIEND A NEUROTIC WRITER, OR ANYONE, COULD HAVE.

MANY OTHER GENEROUS FRIENDS HAVE HELPED IN THE EFFORT TO PUSH, AND IN SOME CASES PULL, MY BOOKS ALONG OVER THE YEARS, PROPPING ME UP, TEARING ME DOWN, AND EVEN READING DRAFTS AS THE SITUATION DEMANDED. 

TO NAME JUST A FEW OF THESE LONG-SUFFERING SOULS, I AM GRATEFUL TO: MICHAEL RAVITCH, ROXANA TYNAN, NICOLE DE LEON, CARA TAPPER, TANIA KATAN, MELISSA DE LA CRUZ, JENNIFER LEHR, AND THE BEST LITERARY CHEERLEADER IN THE WORLD, HILARY REYL. 

I HAVE HILARY TO THANK FOR INTRODUCING ME TO MY AGENT, SARAH BURNES, WHO TOOK ME ON WHEN PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH WAS BARELY A GLIMMER IN MY INNER EYE. 

SARAH HAS GREAT TASTE (OBVIOUSLY!), MANAGES TO BE OPTIMISTIC AND REALISTIC AT ONCE, IS TOUGH WHEN SHE NEEDS TO BE, AND IS A GOOD FRIEND ALWAYS. 

THANK YOU, SARAH, FOR HELPING TURN A FEW HALF-FORMED PAGES INTO NINE FULL-FLEDGED BOOKS, EACH WITH ITS VERY OWN BAR CODE.

WHEN IT CAME TIME TO FIND A PUBLISHER, SARAH ESCORTED ME INTO AN OFFICE TOWER, WHERE WE WERE GREETED BY A ROOMFUL OF PEOPLE IN WHITE GLOVES. 

AS READERS OF MY BOOKS CAN IMAGINE, THE GLOVES GAVE ME QUITE A SCARE. 

I AM GLAD TO REPORT THAT THE PEOPLE WEARING THEM WERE NOT MEMBERS OF THE MIDNIGHT SUN, BUT RATHER THE ENTHUSIASTIC, DEDICATED, AND VERY TALENTED STAFF OF LITTLE, BROWN BOOKS FOR YOUNG READERS, WHO HAD DECIDED TO HOST A SURPRISE PARTY FOR US, REPLETE WITH COSTUMES AND PROPS FOR A FLEA CIRCUS–SIZED PRODUCTION OF THE NAME OF THIS BOOK IS SECRET.

THAT WAS THE DAY I MET THE EDITOR OF THE SECRET SERIES, JENNIFER HUNT. 

A LEGEND AMONG HER WRITERS, JENNIFER HAS UNERRING EDITORIAL INSTINCTS AND A GREAT SMILE. 

FOR YEARS, HER REACTIONS SERVED AS A COMPASS FOR ME, TELLING ME WHEN I WAS ON COURSE OR OFF. 

SHE WAS ALSO MY TASKMASTER, FORCING ME TO WRITE FIVE BOOKS IN FIVE YEARS WHEN ON MY OWN I MIGHT NOT HAVE WRITTEN TWO. 

THANK YOU FOR CRACKING THE WHIP, JENNIFER. 

IT WAS MORE THAN WORTH IT.

HAPPILY, WHEN JENNIFER LEFT LITTLE, BROWN, I WAS NOT LEFT ADRIFT. 

EDITOR IN CHIEF ALVINA LING HAS MADE SURE THAT MY BOOKS ARE WELL TAKEN CARE OF. 

THE DELIGHTFUL AND CLEVER CONNIE HSU EDITED THE (INTENTIONALLY) UNFINISHED WRITE THIS BOOK AND THE FIRST BAD BOOK, BAD MAGIC, HELPING MAKE SENSE OF MY SCATTER-SHOT STORYTELLING—A HORRENDOUSLY DIFFICULT TASK IN WHICH SHE WAS AIDED BY LESLIE SHUMATE. 

IN THE WRITING OF THE SUBSEQUENT BAD BOOKS, BAD LUCK AND BAD NEWS, I HAVE HAD THE PLEASURE OF WORKING WITH A MODEL EDITOR AND HUMAN BEING, LISA YOSKOWITZ. 

I CAN THINK OF NO HIGHER COMPLIMENT THAN TO SAY THAT I DO EVERYTHING SHE TELLS ME TO DO; THERE ARE VERY FEW PEOPLE, LEAST OF ALL EDITORS, OF WHOM I CAN SAY THAT. 

I’M NOT QUITE SURE HOW SHE MANAGES IT, UNLESS IT IS BY KNOWING EXACTLY HOW AND WHEN TO SOFTEN ME UP WITH THE PERFECT MORSEL OF PRAISE.

ALSO, SHE’S USUALLY RIGHT. 

LISA, I AM PUTTY IN YOUR HANDS.

I’M NOT SUGGESTING THAT EVERY SINGLE BOOK OF MINE HAS BEEN TURNED IN MONTHS PAST DEADLINE, BUT IF THAT WERE THE CASE, AND IF MY BOOKS HAD NONETHELESS MADE IT ALL THE WAY TO THE BOOKSTORE IN ONE PIECE, IT WOULD HAVE BEEN THANKS TO THE INFINITE PATIENCE AND EXPERT JUGGLING OF LBYR’S MANAGING EDITORIAL TEAM: ANDY BALL, JEN GRAHAM, CHRISTINE CUCCIO RADLMANN, AND AMANDA HONG. 

HERE I MUST ALSO MENTION A CERTAIN COPY EDITOR WHO IS AS GENEROUS WITH HER TIME AS SHE IS EXACTING WITH HER PEN.

PSEUDONYMOUS BOSCH MAY BE A GRAMMAR SNOB, BUT EVEN HE IS PRONE TO MAKING THE OCCASIONAL GRIEVOUSLY EMBARRASSING ERROR TYPO. 

THANK YOU, BARBARA BAKOWSKI, AND PLEASE REMEMBER THAT ANY GRAMMATICAL MISTAKES I MAY OR MAY NOT MAKE ARE TO BE KEPT STRICTLY BETWEEN YOU AND I—ER, ME.

OVER THE YEARS MANY YOUNG READERS HAVE TOLD ME HOW MUCH THEY LIKE THE LOOK OF MY BOOKS. 

I DO, TOO. 

I FEEL VERY LUCKY TO HAVE WORKED WITH SUCH INSPIRED DESIGNERS AS KIRK BENSHOFF, GAIL DOOBININ, MAGGIE EDKINS, KARINA GRANDA, SASHA ILLINGWORTH, ALISON IMPEY, AND TRACY SHAW, NOT TO MENTION CREATIVE DIRECTOR DAVE CAPLAN. 

READERS ALSO OFTEN COMPLIMENT ME ON THE ARTWORK THEY SEE IN THE BOOKS. 

DO YOU DO THE ILLUSTRATIONS? 

THEY ASK. 

I SHRUG VAGUELY AND CHANGE THE SUBJECT. 

IN FACT, AS MUCH AS I’D LIKE TO TAKE CREDIT, THE ILLUSTRATIONS IN THE SECRET SERIES, AND ALSO IN BAD MAGIC, ARE BY THE MULTITALENTED GILBERT FORD. 

FROM THE VERY BEGINNING I HAVE MARVELED AT HOW WELL GILBERT’S QUIRKY SENSIBILITY COMPLEMENTS PB’S. 

IN A WAY, WE HAVE BEEN COLLABORATORS IN CREATING THE WORLD OF THE SECRET SERIES AND THE BAD BOOKS TOGETHER. 

FOR THE LAST TWO BOOKS, THE INTERIOR ART HAS BEEN BEAUTIFULLY RENDERED BY JUAN MANUEL MORENO. 

IT IS EXCITING TO SEE THE CHARACTERS OF THE BAD BOOKS TAKE ON THIS NEW LIFE.

AS OF THIS WRITING, THE SECRET SERIES HAS SOLD WELL OVER TWO MILLION COPIES IN THE UNITED STATES ALONE, AND BOTH BAD MAGIC AND BAD LUCK HAVE BECOME NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLERS—A RECORD THAT CAN FAIRLY BE CALLED NEITHER SECRET NOR BAD. 

FOR THIS SUCCESS I PLACE THE BLAME SQUARELY ON MELANIE CHANG’S TEAM AT LITTLE, BROWN. 

IF I MAY BE PERMITTED TO PUBLICIZE MY PUBLICISTS, PLEASE APPLAUD LISA MORALEDA AND HER COLLEAGUES JENNIFER CORCORAN AND JESSICA SHOFFEL. 

LISA IS ONE OF THE FEW PEOPLE TO HAVE WORKED WITH ME ON EVERY BOOK I’VE WRITTEN, ESCORTING ME FROM ONE COAST TO THE OTHER AND SENDING ME FROM SCHOOL TO BOOKSTORE TO FESTIVAL AND BACK. 

THANK YOU, LISA, FOR YOUR UNFLAGGING EFFORTS AND FOR MAKING THE ODD MOMENT OF TOUR DOWNTIME SO MUCH MORE ENJOYABLE.

ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MARKETING AND PUBLICITY EQUATION ARE LBYR’S CRACK MARKETEERS JENNY CHOY, ANN DYE, NELLIE KURTZMAN, JENNIFER MCCLELLAND-SMITH, TINA MCINTYRE, STEPHANIE O’CAIN, ALICE MORLEY, ADRIAN PALACIOS, EMILIE POLSTER, AND MY FIERCEST COMPETITOR IN SUNGLASSES-WEARING, VICTORIA STAPLETON. 

THANKS, ALL OF YOU, FOR SPREADING PB’S SECRETS HITHER AND YON AND EVERYWHERE ELSE. 

THANKS ALSO TO THE SALES TEAM: DAVE EPSTEIN, SHAWN FOSTER, AND CHRIS MURPHY. AND PRODUCTION: RENÉE GELMAN, VIRGINIA LAWTHER, AND REBECCA WESTALL. 

I KNOW I AM FORGETTING A FEW NAMES; IF YOURS IS ONE, PLEASE FORGIVE ME. 

IT’S HEARTENING, THOUGH A LITTLE HARD TO BELIEVE, THAT SO MANY PEOPLE ARE INVOLVED IN WHAT OFTEN FEELS LIKE A SOLITARY ENTERPRISE.

OF COURSE, IN THE END, WE ALL SERVE AT THE PLEASURE OF LITTLE, BROWN’S BIG BRASS: THE PUBLISHERS. ANDREW SMITH AND, MOST OF ALL, MEGAN TINGLEY, THANK YOU FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE HEART-SHAPED BOX OF CHOCOLATES IN MY CHEST FOR ALL THE SUPPORT YOU HAVE GIVEN ME OVER THE YEARS. 

I AM HUMBLED— WELL, HONORED, ANYWAY— BY THE TRUST YOU HAVE PLACED IN ME AND MY BOOKS. 

AFTER TEN YEARS, I CONSIDER YOU MY FRIENDS AND LBYR MY HOME.

THAT ALMOST WRAPS IT UP, EXCEPT FOR A FEW THANK-YOUS CLOSER TO MY WRITING DESK. 

QUICHE MAY BE THE WIND BEHIND MY TYPEWRITER, BUT MY RABBIT ASSISTANT HAS HAD HUMAN ASSISTANTS OF HIS OWN: PABLO VALENCIA AND SHANE PANGBURN, OR AS I CALL THEM, QUICHE I AND QUICHE II. 

THANKS, GUYS, FOR KEEPING PB UP TO DATE AND UP TO SNUFF IN HIS CORRESPONDENCE AND ONLINE. 

EVEN WITH THE HELP OF SPECIALLY TRAINED PENGUINS, WE COULD NOT DO IT WITHOUT YOU. 

JUST TRY NOT TO BE QUITE SO FUNNY IN THE FUTURE. IT’S DISCONCERTING.

I EXPLAINED HOW PB’S LIFE BEGAN, BUT MY OWN LIFE AS A WRITER BEGAN MUCH EARLIER, INSPIRED (AGAINST THEIR ADVICE) BY MY PARENTS, BOTH WRITERS THEMSELVES. 

ONE OF MY VERY FIRST JOBS WAS WRITING A SCREENPLAY WITH MY FATHER, ROGER L. SIMON. 

THANK YOU, POP, FOR AN EXPERIENCE THAT TAUGHT ME A LOT ABOUT PLOT AND CHARACTER AND, MORE IMPORTANT FOR A WORKING WRITER, HOW TO SURVIVE GETTING SCRIPT NOTES FROM AN ANGRY EMPLOYER. 

MY MOTHER, DYANNE ASIMOW, I CANNOT THANK ENOUGH, SO I WON’T. 

SUFFICE IT TO SAY SHE STARTED HELPING ME WRITE STORIES BEFORE I COULD WRITE THEM DOWN MYSELF, AND SHE’S NEVER STOPPED HELPING ME. 

SHE WOULDN’T EVEN IF I’D LET HER. 

WHICH I NEVER WOULD. 

I LOVE YOU, MOM.

FINALLY, ALWAYS WAITING IMPATIENTLY FOR ME TO FINISH, IS MY OWN FAMILY. 

WE ARE TWO DADS AND TWO DAUGHTERS, AND I WOULDN’T WANT IT ANY OTHER WAY. 

PHILLIP, INDIA, AND NATALIA, YOU ARE THE BEST REASON I CAN THINK OF TO START WRITING IN THE MORNING, AND THE BEST REASON TO STOP AT THE END OF THE DAY. 

MY LOVE FOR YOU IS IN EVERY WORD AND IN THE SPACES IN BETWEEN.—RAPHAEL SIMON

The Unbelievable Oliver and the Four Jokers Author

Written by Pseudonymous Bosch

To the Indomitable India and the Notorious Natalia —P.B.

For the Genuine Jennifer —S.P. 

RUN OF SHOW

Title Page
Dedication
Copyright 

INTRODUCTION (quick opening trick)
Chapter One: Is This Your Card?
Chapter Two: The Gig
Chapter Three: Nothing Bunny About It
Chapter Four: Maddox’s Birthday “Farty”
Chapter Five: The Grand Opening
Chapter Six: Showtime!
Chapter Seven: Accusations All Around 
INTERMISSION (Bathroom Break)
Chapter Eight: The Who, the What, and the Where
Chapter Nine: The Investigation, Part One
Chapter Ten: The Investigation, Part Two
Chapter Eleven: Rabbit, Run
Chapter Twelve: Alibis, Alibis, Alibis
Chapter Thirteen: The Four Jokers
Chapter Fourteen: The Middle Name Drop
Chapter Fifteen: The After Party 
ENCORE (How to Perform Oliver’s Card Trick)
About the Authors 

INTRODUCTION

Think of a number.

Is it 285,742,956?

No?

I didn’t think so.

That would have been quite a coincidence.

Are you ready for some magic?

Today, I present a new work of illusion and mystery. 

It is a magic trick that I have been working on for many months.

I call it . . . 

...A BOOK!

All I need is someone to read it.

Do I have a volunteer?

Chapter 1 Is This Your Card?

“Is this your card?”

NO.

It was not their card.

The twins, Bea and Teenie, short for Beatriz and Martina, were not impressed. 

They were even less impressed when the magician pulled another wrong card from the deck. 

Then another still . . .

“Is this your card?” 

“Not that one either.”   

“Uh-uh.”   

“Come on!” 

“No.”   

“Nope.”   

“Nah.”  

“No way!” 

“That’s from GO FISH!”   

“That’s a fish!”   *sigh* 

Every card was wrong. 

Everything was wrong, really.

Oliver, our boy magician, was no wizard. 

He had no hat, no gloves, not even a wand. 

He was too small for his jacket, as well as for his age—eight last April. 

And he lacked the confidence you’d expect from anyone truly astonishing.

A magician should at least be astonishing. 

Wouldn’t you agree?

He made one last effort to startle and amaze.

“Okay, is this your card?” he said, holding up the four of diamonds again.

“Yes!” said Bea.

“Maybe,” said Teenie, who was having a little trouble paying attention. 

“See, we forgot our card. So it could be our card.”

Oliver covered his face with the few remaining cards in the deck.

“Don’t lie, Teenie!” 

Bea said with a glare.

“I’m not lying. I’m telling him the truth,” Teenie insisted. 

“We forgot his card. You were lying.”

“I lied to make him feel better. Don’t you feel better, Oliver?”

Oliver did not feel better, but it seemed unkind to say so. 

He tried to smile, unsuccessfully.

“Maybe you’re just not cut out to be a magician,” said Teenie helpfully.

Oliver had only recently started dabbling in the magical arts, after borrowing a deck of cards from his cousin Spencer, who worked at the local magic shop. 

Several cards were missing from the deck, but it had “all the main ones,” Spencer had assured him.

“Anyway, you don’t need a full deck for most tricks. You’ll see, magic is easy.”

Oliver was beginning to think his cousin had misled him.

“Thank you for inviting me to your tea party,” said Oliver. 

“You said there was going to be cake.” 

WHERE'S THE CAKE?

If there was one thing that was going to make Oliver feel better, it was cake.

“You’re welcome, Oliver,” Bea replied. 

“The cake is right in front of you—it’s imaginary. Like the tea. Do you want to play Genius Fairies?”

Oliver loved cake. 

All kinds of cake. 

Cupcake. 

Sponge cake.

Pancake.

He even loved imaginary cake. 

Most days, it was the only sort of cake that his mother, who was a health food nut, would let him have.

He did not love Bea’s current favorite make-believe game, Genius Fairies: magical fairies who were good at math and science. 

Not Oliver’s strongest subjects.

Before he could refuse to play, Teenie chimed in: “Frida doesn’t want to play Genius Fairies. She wants to play Super Fairies.” 

Super Fairies were good at running, sneaking, and acrobatics. 

Also not Oliver’s strongest subjects.

“Her name’s not Frida.” 

Bea pointed to the cat. 

“It’s Calico.”

“Frida!”

“Calico!”

As the girls fought, Oliver checked the cat’s collar. 

ACHOO!

In all the excitement, Oliver forgot that he was allergic to cats.

“Oliver, did you get an invitation to Maddox’s party?”

Oliver was relieved that they had changed the topic. 

But not so relieved when he realized what the new topic was.

Maddox, the richest kid at Nowonder Elementary, was turning nine that Saturday. 

His party was the talk of the third-grade class. 

RAFI BEATRIZ MARTINA MEMPHIS JAYDEN ROSE OLIVER JOE SHANE MADDOX AUSTIN BROOKLYN

“Um . . . it must have gotten lost in the mail,” Oliver said. 

“It’s okay, I can’t go anyway.”

“You have to go—he has a pool!” Bea declared. 

“Besides, if we don’t go to the party, Maddox will think that we don’t like him.” 

BUT WE DON'T LIKE HIM.

YES, BUT WE DON'T WANT HIM TO KNOW THAT.

WELL I'M NOT GOING IF OLIVER'S NOT GOING.

BUT I'M NOT EVEN INVITED.

“Wait. We don’t have a present,” said Bea. 

“If we don’t bring a present, then he’ll really know we don’t like him.”

“What can we get Maddox?” Teenie asked. 

“Wait. Does he have a cat?”

“I’m not giving him Frida!” said Bea.

“You call her Calico!”

“Well, I’m not giving him Calico either.”

“What then?”

Teenie and Bea looked at each other, then together they yelled at the top of their lungs: “Daddy! Papa! Emergency! We have to go to the pet store!”

Forgetting about Oliver, they ran upstairs to talk to their fathers.

Left alone at the table, Oliver turned to Frida/Calico. 

IS THIS YOUR CARD?

Chapter 2 The Gig

Do you know the expression that begins, If at first you don’t succeed . . . ? 

As far as Oliver was concerned, it ended . . . do not humiliate yourself again.

After the tea party fiasco, Oliver decided he was not cut out to be a magician. 

(Fiasco is a very useful word; it means disaster. I find there can never be enough words for disaster.)

He would have to look for a new occupation. 

Baker maybe? 

He liked cake, after all. 

He could see his business card already: OLIVER Kid Baker

Or did “Kid Baker” make it sound as if he were baking kids instead of cakes?

The next day, Oliver’s mother was working late, so he got a ride home with Bea and Teenie.

As always, he got the middle seat, but because he had a generous spirit he didn’t complain. 

Also, it was the only way his booster seat fit. 

Usually, the middle seat put him in the middle of a fight between the twins, with Bea angrily complaining that it was too loud for her to read and Teenie noisily humming and tapping on the window. 

Today, the twins were in agreement, which was worse.

“Great news! We got you invited to Maddox’s party,” Teenie said.

“I wish you hadn’t,” said Oliver, distressed. 

“Did he know he was inviting me?”

“Well, no,” Bea admitted. 

“But don’t worry, you’re not really invited. More like . . . booked.”

“Booked?”

“Exactly,” said Teenie. 

“It’s a paid gig.”

“It is? Wait. What’s a gig?”

Bea tapped a drumroll on her book.

“You’re the entertainment!”

“You’ll be doing a magic show!” Teenie sang. 

“Isn’t that amazing?”

“But I’m not a magician!” Oliver protested. 

“Besides, I told you, I have Hebrew school.”

“Maddox’s birthday is Saturday. You have Hebrew school on Sunday,” said Bea, who knew Oliver’s schedule better than he did. 

“Anyway, you can’t back out. We promised Maddox. He’s expecting the greatest magician this side of the Mississippi.”

“M-i-s-s-i-s-s-i-p-p-i,” Teenie whispered. 

Having just learned to spell Mississippi, she could not think of the name without also spelling it.

“So you see, this isn’t really about you, Oliver,” Bea added. 

“It’s about our honor. You can’t besmirch our honor.”

Oliver didn’t know what besmirch meant, but it sounded very bad.

What could he do? 

He wasn’t a real magician. 

He wasn’t even a real kid magician.

“I’ve never performed in front of a crowd,” he said. 

“I’ve never even done an oral report.”

“It’s easy,” Bea said. 

“Just imagine they’re all cats.”

“Or in their underwear,” Teenie added.

Oliver did his best to imagine cats in underwear. 

“Anyway, you have plenty of time to practice,” said Bea. 

“The party isn’t till tomorrow.”

That’s twenty-four hours, thought Oliver. 

He couldn’t possibly learn magic in twenty-four hours. 

He couldn’t even learn his multiplication tables in that time. 

To be honest, he didn’t think he’d ever learn his multiplication tables.

He was in a panic. 

Here are some ideas about what to do when you’re in a panic: 

1. Practice your multiplication tables: 

2. Make up a mantra. Repeat it until someone makes you stop: ABRACADABRA, ALAKAZAM... ABRACADABRA, ALAKAZAM...

3. Hide your head in your shirt and disappear: DID THE PROBLEM GO AWAY? 

4. Address the problem: INTERNET, HOW DO YOU MAGICIAN? 

In the end, Oliver could think of only one thing to do. 

And it wasn’t so much a thing to do as a place to go. 

The Great Zoocheni's Magic Emporium 

The Great Zoocheeni’s Magic Emporium did not look very magical. 

It looked cluttered and dirty. 

The first time he’d visited, Oliver had been very disappointed. 

This was the second time he’d visited, and he was still disappointed. 

On the shelves were the same dusty magic sets, the same used how-to DVDs, the same faded rubber chickens.

“Hey, cuz,” Spencer said without looking up from his phone. 

“Don’t tell me, you want a plastic poop. I told you nobody falls for those.”

“I need magic lessons, and a hat, and a wand,” Oliver said in a rush. 

“And how much do rabbits cost?”

“Slooooooow down.” 

Spencer rose from the stool behind the counter. 

He was tall and slim and had taken to wearing suspenders. 

“Let’s start with the hat.”

Oliver surveyed the hats, all well out of his price range, which was the five dollars he’d saved by not buying lunch two days this week, meatloaf Monday (yuck) and vegetable soup Tuesday (gross).

“What can I get for five dollars?” Oliver asked.

“Zero hats,” said Spencer. 

“But tell you what, there’s an old hat in the back that we were going to throw away. A man came from Las Vegas last week. Sold everything, even his cape.”

Spencer tossed Oliver an old, moth-eaten top hat. 

It was so heavy that he fell to the ground catching it. 

The hat was velvet, and was once maybe blue or possibly purple. 

What it had lost in color it had gained in smell. 

“Did somebody puke in this?”

“Not lately.”

The hat fit like a glove. 

A glove that was much too large.

“It looks great on you,” Spencer said as he took a picture of his cousin.

“What about magic lessons?” asked Oliver.

Oliver took off the hat and placed it on the counter. 

The hat appeared to move ever so slightly toward the candy dish near the cash register.

That’s impossible, Oliver thought. 

Even a magician’s hat doesn’t move on its own.

“Zoocheeni stopped giving lessons,” Spencer said. 

“Not enough money in it.”

“But I need to learn magic for a birthday party tomorrow! It’s a paid gig—” 

POOF

At the sound of “paid gig” a flash of smoke filled the room, followed by a coughing dove and the Great Zoocheeni himself.

“Magic can’t just be taught, my boy.” 

Zoocheeni spoke with his wand in the air as if he were conducting an orchestra. 

“It has to be lived. Believe, and your audience will follow.” 

Oliver could not follow. 

He was distracted by the dove, who had perched on Oliver’s new hat and was pecking at the brim. 

The hat appeared to peck back.

“And how much are they paying for this ‘gig,’ as you call it?” Zoocheeni continued. 

“This ‘burrrthday partay.’

”The great magician said “birthday party” as if it were something quite smelly, like a sock worn a second day or a used magician’s hat. 

The dove pinched her beak in revulsion.

“I’m not sure,” Oliver replied. 

“They have a lot of money, though. He’s got a pool.”

“A pool, you say?” Zoocheeni rubbed his chin in thought. 

“How very interesting. Aboveground or . . . Never mind. Such trifles are beneath me. As are birthday parties. You asked for a magic lesson. How much are you willing to pay?”

“Five dollars.”

Oliver was proud of his five-dollar bill and held it in the air. 

The dove snatched it and dropped it into the open cash register.

Zoocheeni nodded to the dove. 

“Thank you, Paloma,” he said in a voice full of adoration.

The magician turned back to Oliver. 

“For five dollars, I couldn’t teach you a single trick.”

“But Mr. Zucchini! The dove—”

The magician rose to his full height. 

“How dare you call me that! It’s Zoo-cheeni. Like zoo-cheesy. But with an n!”

“I’m sorry,” said Oliver desperately. 

“But the dove took my money. Can’t you at least teach me one trick?”

Zoocheeni considered.

“Well, maybe just one. . . .”

Oliver was excited to learn a new trick, but before he could take out his notepad and pencil, he was picked up by the scruff of his neck and thrown out the door.

“What about the trick?” he called out.

“That was it,” came the answer. 

“I taught you to disappear!”

Oliver’s new hat came sailing after . . . with a CLANK a THUMP, two hops, and a GROAN!  

Chapter 3
Nothing Bunny About It 

Oliver sat in the alley behind the magic store, wishing he could disappear altogether. 

What was he going to do? 

He was supposed to do a magic show, and all he had was a smelly hat and no tricks.

“Psst.”

Oliver looked around.

“Anybody out there?” asked a gruff voice.

Oliver looked around again. 

He couldn’t see anybody.

“Just me,” he said. 

“And . . . you?”

“Oh, I’m here all right. Why else would my tush hurt so much?”

Oliver nodded uneasily. 

“Are you sure you’re not just in my head?”

“Well, I was on your head a moment ago. But now I seem to be out on the street. Not that it’s the first time, mind you.”

Oliver looked around yet again, until his eyes fixed on the top hat. 

It moved a little. 

Slowly, recognition dawned. 

“You’re a . . . hat?”

“What? Ha! Now that would be a first!”

A head popped out of the hat. 

“No, this here is just my crib, my pad, my castle, mi casa.”

Oliver stared.

It was the head of a rabbit. 

The head of a rabbit wearing sunglasses.

“Thanks for busting me out, kid. You did me a solid.”

“You’re welcome,” said Oliver, more than a little bit confused.

The rabbit looked around suspiciously, sniffed. 

“And here I thought I knew every back alley in Vegas.”

He shrugged. 

“So can you tell me how to get to the Luxor?”

“Isn’t Luxor a city in Egypt?” asked Oliver. 

“No, kid. It’s a hotel in Vegas. Why, does Egypt have pyramids too?”

Oliver nodded his head. 

“But we’re not in Egypt. Or Vegas.”

“This isn’t Vegas? Is it Reno? I can’t go back to Reno! Not without a disguise.” 

The rabbit eyed the back door of the magic shop as if his enemies were about to walk out of it. 

“Can you spare me a disguise? On second thought, can you loan me a Hamilton?”

“A Hamilton?”

“A ten, kid. No? Okay, make it a Lincoln. A fiver. Any green at all?” 

The rabbit’s eyes narrowed. 

“And no, I don’t mean carrot tops, wise guy. Trust me, I’ve heard all those jokes before.”

“The Great Zoocheeni took my money,” said Oliver nervously. 

“I won’t have any more until I get paid for the magic show.”

“Magic show! Why didn’t you say so? I know a thing or two about magic. What tricks you got up your sleeve, kid?” 

THE FRENCH DROP?

THE ARCH CATCH?

THE FOUR JACKS?

THE DETACHABLE THUMB?

THE GOT YOUR NOSE?

Oliver didn’t know any tricks.

“Let me get this straight,” the rabbit said as he returned Oliver’s nose. 

“You don’t even know the Four Jacks? It’s the oldest trick in the book! Also known as the Four Kings. Four Queens. Or Four Whatever Card You Want to Use.”

“My deck doesn’t have four of any card,” said Oliver. 

“Except jokers. And I think they come from different decks.”

The rabbit twitched his nose in dismay.

“And yet you say you’re a magician?”

“No . . .”

“Well, not with that attitude, you aren’t! You got a gig, though, huh?”

Oliver nodded glumly. 

“A birthday party.”

“Birthday? I haven’t worked a birthday party in years. All those little monsters pumped up on sugar and running wild—no thank you. Still, you could do worse than to talk to me.”

“Wait, you can talk!” Oliver only then realized he’d been chatting with a woodland creature for several minutes.

“Yeah, kid, whadya think I’ve been doing? So, whose birthday is it? How many invited? Any wise guys?”

“It’s Maddox’s birthday party. It’ll be a big party. He invited the whole class. Except me.”

“Ah, so we’re sneaking in the side door, are we? That’ll teach ’em.” 

The rabbit nodded approvingly. 

“What’s the take?”

Oliver shrugged.

He didn’t know what the take meant.

“The money, kid. The haul.”

“Oh!” Oliver said. 

“A lot, I think. He has a pool.”

“A pool, huh?” 

The rabbit thought it over. 

“Aboveground or . . . Never mind—let’s cut to the chase. It just so happens that I have a little leisure time right now. And there’s these guys in Reno who, well, I could use the dough. Know what I’m saying?”

Oliver had no idea what the rabbit was saying, but he nodded anyway.

“Good, good, I knew you had to be sharper than you seemed,” said the rabbit enthusiastically. 

“What do you say we go partners on this birthday business. We split it Even-Steven, right down the middle. Sixty-forty. Give me a paw.”

Oliver was pretty sure that an even split would be fifty-fifty. 

Then again, he wasn’t very good at math. 

He extended his hand. 

“What’s your name again, kid?” the rabbit asked.

“Oliver.”

“I’m gonna call you Ollie.”

“I’d rather you didn’t,” Oliver said. 

“What’s your name?”

“Well, Ollie, I’m Benny.”

“As in bunny?” Oliver laughed.

“No, as in Benny.” 

The rabbit turned his back on the boy. 

“Nothing bunny about it. Nothing funny, either, Ollie . . . Wait. What do you call yourself?”

“I just told you: Oliver.” 

Oliver was beginning to think that this talking rabbit was a bit nuts.

“No, no, your stage name, kid. You can’t be a magician without a stage name. You know, the Amazing . . . the Magnificent . . .”

“Oh.” Oliver had actually given this a little bit of thought.

“I was thinking, maybe, the Great Oliverini?”

The rabbit shook his head.

“Unbelievable.”

“You’re saying that should be my name?” Oliver struck a magical pose. 

“The Unbelievable Oliver!”

Benny covered his sunglasses with a paw. 

THIS IS GONNA BE A DISASTER.

Chapter 4
Maddox’s Birthday “Farty”

Oliver lived only a few blocks away, but Maddox may as well have lived on a different planet. 

A planet with greener grass, cleaner roads, and, Oliver suspected, meaner residents.

A guardhouse and gate blocked the entry to Maddox’s street. 

You had to say a password just to drive in.

The password was “Maddox’s Party.” 

Bea and Teenie made their papa practice first.

“Try to act cool about it,” said Bea. 

“Don’t let the guard know that you’re nervous.”

“I’m not nervous,” their papa said. 

“Just say something like, We’re here for MADDOX’S PARTY,” said Teenie, winking.

“Estamos aquί para la fiesta de Maddox,” said their papa, winking back.

“En ingles!” said the twins, giggling.

(Even though his grandparents came from Mexico, their papa did not grow up speaking Spanish—a grave misfortune he tried to make up for by speaking the language with his daughters whenever he could.)

“And don’t wink!” added Bea.

Teenie, Bea, and Oliver were crowded in the backseat along with Bea’s backpack and Maddox’s gift, which was decorated with a drawing of what might or might not have been a flying cat.

“It’s a Robo-Kitty Deluxe II,” Teenie whispered to Oliver. 

“A robot cat! But don’t tell anybody.”

Oliver had nobody to tell, except maybe Benny, who’d already heard everything, since he was hiding in the hat atop Oliver’s head. 

The rabbit tried to be quiet but couldn’t help farting occasionally. 

The car was starting to smell as they arrived at the guardhouse. 

“Who’s doing that?” asked Bea, looking at Oliver. 

Oliver smiled weakly.

“We’re here for Maddox’s farty,” said Papa to the guard.

Everyone laughed—even the guard, who waved them in, and at the same time waved away the smell.

Benny lifted the hat slightly and whispered to Oliver: 

What's so funny?

“What do you have under there?!” asked Bea in alarm.

“Where?” Teenie asked.

Bea pointed to the hat. 

“It moved!”

“Tell them it’s dandruff,” Benny whispered to Oliver. 

“Or lice.”

But Teenie was too quick.

She lifted Oliver’s hat, revealing Benny’s twitching nose. 

“There’s a rabbit on your head!”

Bea stared in disbelief. 

“Wow. It’s almost like you’re a real magician!”

“Almost,” Oliver said, nervously readjusting his hat. 

“But keep it secret. Benny, er, the rabbit is the big finale.”

He and Benny had agreed that the rabbit should appear only briefly. 

And should never, ever speak in front of others. 

No need to raise questions.

They could tell which house was Maddox’s right away. 

It was the biggest in a row of already big houses, and it had the fanciest cars parked in front. 

Also, it was decorated with big balloon letters spelling M-A-D-D-O-X.

Bea and Teenie entered the party, holding Maddox’s present between them because they both wanted credit for bringing it.

Oliver followed, holding his stomach because it was turning over and over like a washing machine.

“Are Maddox and his friends talking to a clown?” asked Bea when she was done marveling at the height of the entry room’s ceiling. 

MADDOX 
OFFICIAL PARTY MAP

The birthday boy was standing next to his three very unfriendly friends, Joe, Jayden, and Memphis. 

This was not surprising. 

Maddox was almost never not standing with them. 

What was surprising was that he was also standing next to a man with a bright red nose and a big curly wig—and, mysteriously, a cape. 

(As a rule, clowns don’t wear capes.) 

On the man’s shoulder was a white bird, also wearing a clown nose.

HONK

Oliver thought he recognized them, but from where he couldn’t remember.

Thankfully, he didn’t know any clowns.

Maddox’s mother approached.

“Mom, tell him to go home!” Maddox shouted. 

“I don’t want some pathetic clown!”

“I’m so sorry. I must have the wrong burrrthday partay,” said the clown, sounding not at all sorry.

He swung his cape around in a very un-clown-like fashion. 

The bird swung its wing in the same way. 

Then they brushed past Oliver and exited the premises.

Maddox grabbed Teenie and Bea’s gift with barely a glance, then dumped it off on his big friend Joe, who did all of Maddox’s heavy lifting.

Maddox’s mom smiled apologetically at Bea and Teenie. 

“That wasn’t your magician, was it? The Unbelievable Oscar?”

“Oliver,” Oliver mumbled.

“Oh, so you’re Oscar?” said Maddox’s mother. 

“Wonderful.”

Maddox glared. 

“What’s he doing here?!”

“Now that’s not very nice,” Maddox’s mother chided. 

“This young man is a professional magician. And we’ve asked him to do a show! Won’t that be fun?”

Maddox’s response made it clear that he did not think it would be fun.

He appeared to be throwing a tantrum, but of course that was impossible, as this was his ninth birthday and nine was far too old for tantrums.

Eventually, it was decided that Oliver could stay and do the magic show. 

In return, Maddox would get to open presents first.

Benny, for one, was relieved. 

“We’re in, kid!” the rabbit shouted from inside the hat. 

“Getting in is always the hardest part. Except for getting out.”

Bea looked suspiciously at Oliver. 

“Did you say something?”

“Just my stomach. I’m nervous about the show.”

That much was true at least.

“Everyone, change of plan,” Maddox’s mother announced. 

“Please come to the den.”

On their way into the party, all the third graders of Nowonder Elementary had been handed maps of the premises.

What’s the difference between a den and a living room? 

Oliver wondered as he checked his map. 

Chapter 5
The Grand Opening

Soon the whole third grade was gathered in the den, watching Maddox tear through a mountain of gifts while a football game played silently on the giant screen behind him. 

(To judge by Maddox’s house, a den was basically a living room with a big TV—so big, in this case, that it took up an entire wall.)

Just like at school, Maddox sat in the middle of the room, flanked by his flunkies: Memphis, Joe, and Jayden.

“Clothes! Gross,” he said, shaking a big box. 

“What am I supposed to do with those?”

He tossed the box aside, unopened. 

Oliver watched from the patio outside.

Judging by the dwindling pile of presents, he had only minutes to prepare for his show.

“I built this already.” 

“I already have a real one.” 

“Homemade slime? Yuck. Store-bought is better!” 

As Maddox rejected one gift after another, his friends cheered and jeered.

Nearby, a housekeeper gathered the torn wrapping paper and misplaced birthday cards.

“We need those so we can send thank-you notes later,” Maddox’s mother explained. 

Maddox had never written a thank-you note in his life, but she remained optimistic. 

Finally, only the gift from Bea and Teenie was left. 

Maddox eyed the flying cat drawing with disdain. 

“Who drew that? It looks like it’s for a girl.”

“Maddox!” scolded his mother.

“Whatever.” 

He picked up the gift, about to toss it away.

“Meow!” said the gift.

“What the—” Suddenly interested, Maddox ripped open the package.

“Whoa! Finally, something good. An RK-D2! Cooooool.” 

“Oh!” 

At this change in attitude, Maddox’s mother’s ears perked up. 

“Who was that from?”

“Who cares?” Maddox said. 

“It’s mine now.”

Bea raised her hand. 

“We got him the RK-D2. Me and Teenie. And Oliver . . .  kinda.”

“Thank you, girls.” 

Maddox’s mother smiled at the twins. 

“Maddox, don’t you want to thank Beatriz and Martina and Oliver . . . kinda?”

“Thank you, oh thank you, Beatriz and Martina and Oliver . . . kinda,” said Maddox in a tone some might call sarcastic. 

(Others might call it mean.) 

“But nobody else!”

“I was going to get him that,” Memphis whispered to Teenie, who pretended not to hear.

Through the sliding glass doors, Oliver could see that the present pile had disappeared. 

It was almost showtime.

“Focus, kid,” Benny shouted from inside the hat. 

“It’s great that you’re doing your breathing exercises, but focus!”

FOCUS!

Oliver wasn’t doing breathing exercises. 

He was hyperventilating.

“I’m sorry,” Oliver said. 

“I’m trying.”

They’d been drilling the same simple trick for the last five minutes, but Oliver wasn’t getting it.

It's easy, kid. You just eat one...
Two...
Three petals. Then stem.
Chew real good.
Swallow.
Then reach into your shorts...
...and
voila!

“Maybe it works better if you’re a rabbit,” said Oliver.

Maddox’s mother approached to see the young magician talking to his hat.

“Is that part of your mystique, talking to a hat? A magician has to have mystique.”

“What?” asked Oliver, startled.

“It’s time for the show,” said Maddox’s mother. 

“You better rub your lucky rabbit’s foot.”

“You better not!” came the instant reply from inside Oliver’s hat.

Maddox’s mother smiled uncertainly. 

“Are you sure you’re ready?”

Oliver was not ready. 

Chapter 6
Showtime!

For Oliver’s show, the patio had been outfitted with red velvet curtains, a blinking neon sign, and rows of folding chairs that now contained the entire third-grade class, excluding Oliver. 

Twenty-four kids.

All staring at him with varying degrees of disinterest and suspicion. 

MAGIC

It was like looking at his class photo, which he’d also been excluded from. 

(Well, not exactly excluded, just blocked by a few taller kids.) 

Benny paced nervously on top of his head.

“Okay, Ollie, this is it—showtime!” the bunny whispered in his ear. 

“Years of practice and preparation, sweat and tears, and it all comes down to this one moment. Weaker souls would crumble at a time like this. But you—well, I know you, and what I know about you . . . well, it’s not a lot, honestly.”

In front of Oliver was a microphone on a stand. 

He’d never used a microphone before and he didn’t want to use one now, but Bea and Teenie had requested it.

“It’s part of your rider,” Bea said. 

“Along with four pieces of birthday cake.” 

Oliver wasn’t sure what a rider was, but it seemed to impress Benny. 

Magician's Rider
The Unbelievable Oliver
-Cake 4 slices corner preferred
-Microphone and stand
-Sparkingling water (RoomTemp!)

“Next time, have them ask for carrots—a dozen, and by a dozen, I mean thirteen, a bunny’s dozen,” the bunny specified.

For his part, Oliver was happy just to have four pieces of cake.

“Two slices are for us,” Teenie clarified.

The mic stand was too tall. 

Oliver lowered it as far is it would go, which was still a full foot over his head. 

“That’s great, kid.” 

Benny pawed at Oliver’s scalp. 

“You’ve got ’em laughing. Now hit ’em with another joke.”

Oliver couldn’t remember any jokes. 

The microphone “joke” had not been intentional.

Sensing that he needed encouragement, Bea stood up. 

“And now, ladies and gentlemen, let’s give it up for the Unbelievable Oliver!”

She started clapping madly. 

Nobody joined her except Teenie and Rose, another class outcast, who was always wearing cat ears. 

Oliver had been a little surprised to see her at the party. 

If even Rose was invited, what must Maddox think of him? 

Luckily, the sight of Rose reminded Oliver to think about cats in underwear. 

It helped a little. 

He forced himself to speak.

“Thank you,” he said. 

“Today Maddox is nine years old. That’s old, huh? I’m still eight. Say, what did Zero say to Eight? Anyone?”

“Nice belt?” 

Teenie chimed in.

“Why thank you, it’s new.” 

Oliver bowed to the total silence of the crowd. 

“Get it? The middle of the eight is the belt.”

Oliver swallowed. 

“So who’s ready for some magic?”

Nobody spoke up. 

Rose tentatively raised her hand, then dropped it. 

Oliver proceeded anyway.

“I need a volunteer. Anyone? You, young man.” 

He pointed to Maddox, who responded with a dead stare.

“I’m going to go play with my robo-cat,” Maddox said, and ran toward the kitchen.

But it’s your birthday, Oliver thought, paralyzed. 

This show is for you.

“Never mind him,” Benny whispered. 

“Just keep talking. Silence is the enemy. Skip to the French Drop if you’re stuck.”

Oliver gathered his courage to continue. 

“Do you by chance have a quarter, Mrs. Maddox’s Mom?”

Maddox’s mother gamely handed the young magician a quarter. 

He displayed it with a flourish, before attempting to pinch it in his right hand.

Press coin between thumb and forefinger. 

Use your thumb to lift the coin up and over your knuckles. 

“Accidentally” drop the coin.  

Don’t panic. 

Cover the coin with your shoe. 

“And voilà, it’s gone!”

In the rush of motion, he dropped the coin.

“As you can see, the coin has . . .  d-disappeared,” he stammered. 

“But I’m no burglar. That was your quarter and you deserve it back.”

Oliver had no way to get the quarter off the ground without being noticed. 

“Hey, Benny,” he said under his breath. 

“Do you have a quarter?”

“Sure thing, Ollie,” Benny whispered back. 

“You’re gonna have to pull me out of the hat, though. You up for it?”

Oliver didn’t feel up for anything.

Nonetheless, he lifted the hat from his head.

“I always keep spare change in my hat.” 

Oliver offered the hat to Maddox’s mom. 

“Check and see.”

Benny hid under the hat’s false bottom as she reached for the coin.

“There’s nothing there.” 

She seemed disappointed.

“Are you sure?” 

Oliver reached in the hat, and pulled Benny out by his ears, the coin clenched between his massive incisors. 

“Ta-da!” 

For the first time, the audience began to clap, but they were quickly silenced.

“Stop!” Maddox shouted. 

Everyone’s head swiveled as the birthday boy returned. 

“Nobody move. Mom, call the police. There’s been a robbery.”

“Did he say police?” whispered Benny through his clenched teeth. 

“I knew this gig was too good to be true.”

“But the rabbit was just about to give the quarter back,” Maddox’s mom said.

At this, the rabbit nodded vigorously, dropped the quarter to the ground, and swung himself head-first back into the hat.

“Not the quarter,” said Maddox, kicking the coin away. 

“The robo-cat. RK-D2. I left it right on top of the kitchen island, and it’s gone.”

He looked accusingly at his classmates. 

“Somebody here stole it!” 

Chapter 7
Accusations All Around

Now, I like magic as much as the next person who writes books about magic and thinks about magic all day long. 

But, forgive me, there is something that sometimes fascinates me more than a magic trick.

Chocolate? 

Yes, of course, chocolate always comes first. 

However, I’m thinking of something else at the moment.

Crime.

In my fascination with crime I am not alone. 

As soon as Maddox uttered the word robbery, every guest at his party was transfixed. 

Forget about Oliver’s magic show. 

A theft—now that was interesting!

You could have heard a pin drop, never mind a quarter from a rabbit’s mouth.

Maddox’s mother tried to remain calm. 

“Now, Maddox, be reasonable,” she said to her son. 

“Who would steal a cat?”

All eyes turned to Rose, who paled under her cat ears. 

“Rose must have taken it,” said Jayden. 

“She’s way too into cats.”

Rose was, in fact, very much into cats. 

Aside from the cat-ears headband, she wore a cat T-shirt, a cat backpack, and more cat hairs than you could count.

“I didn’t take the cat,” Rose said. 

“I’m allergic.”

“But you love cats!” Memphis shouted. 

“You’re the weird cat girl!”

Rose stood her ground. 

“Oh, I love cats. I’m allergic to robots.”

Her classmates made skeptical noises. 

They knew about a lot of allergies, but this was a new one.

“I’m serious.” 

Rose lifted her arm to show her medical wristbands. 

“See? 

“It’s the silicon. That’s why I don’t use computers.”

Suddenly, the weird cat girl’s behavior began to make more sense. 

“It was Oliver then,” Memphis said. 

“He makes things disappear.”

“No I don’t!” 

Oliver looked around for something that might prove his point, but Benny was hiding inside the hat, and the coin Maddox had kicked was nowhere to be seen.

Maddox turned to the partygoers. 

“He’s trying to trick us! But it won’t work. We aren’t falling for it this time.”

Bea tried to help. 

“Oliver isn’t a good enough magician to pull off that kind of disappearing act.”

“Or maybe the twins took it,” Memphis said. 

“They wanted the RK-D2 for themselves.”

“That’s not true!” Teenie shouted. 

“We wanted the calico model.”

Maddox nodded, an unpleasant smile on his face. 

“Yeah, that’s why they got me the cat! Think about it. Their mom won’t buy it for them, so they had her buy it for me. Then they stole it back.”

“But we don’t have a mom,” Teenie said.

“So your dads got it for you.” 

Maddox shrugged. 

“Same thing.”

Jayden joined in: “It’s the perfect alibi! Nobody would suspect you.”

“Yeah,” said Joe. 

“Not even us!”

Even though they were wrong about the twins, Oliver had to admit the mean kids were smarter than he’d thought. 

Their logic was sound.

“Maybe it’s just lost,” Oliver suggested.

“Maybe you lost it, loser!” said Maddox. 

“Or more like you took it!”

The group erupted into accusations. 

The rabbit took it!
Maybe the cat's on a "Business Trip".
Did you look under the patio?
The twins did it!
Austin!
Brooklyn!
Rose!

“Tough crowd,” Benny whispered.

Oliver’s first magic show was not shaping up to be a success.

Maddox’s mother did her best to change the mood of the party.

“Intermission!” she announced. 

“Why doesn’t everyone go swimming? We’ll have more magic in a bit. Be careful around the Candycano. It erupts every fifteen minutes.” 

The children turned around to see the fearsome Candycano. 

Sure, a lot of parties have candy tables, but this was a fancy party. 

It had a candy volcano. 

A towering mountain of sugary treats topped by a crater of melted chocolate lava.

Hanging above was an illuminated countdown clock.

Released from magic show prison, some kids made a break for the Candycano, some for the pool or climbing wall. 

Only Rose braved the reptile petting zoo.

“Not so fast, you three!” 

Maddox’s mother said to Oliver, Bea, and Teenie. 

“I don’t know what happened here, but my son thinks you stole his present.”

Benny tugged on a strand of Oliver’s hair. 

“Let’s make a break for it, Ollie! Our gooses are cooked. Our hen has mislaid the golden egg. And the chickens have come home to roost. Know what I mean, kid?”

As usual, Oliver had no idea what Benny meant. 

He also had no idea who stole the robo-cat, and it was clear that Maddox’s mother expected some answers.

“Let the police sort it out,” Maddox said.

The whole crew shuddered at the mention of police involvement, none more so than Benny.

Maddox’s mother tried to ease the tension. 

“No, no, no, that won’t be necessary. We’ll just call their parents.”

Now Bea and Teenie were even more terrified. 

If their fathers thought they’d stolen a robot, they’d be grounded for months, and their own birthday was just weeks away.

“Please don’t call our dads!” Teenie cried.

“We’ll get the cat back, we promise,” Bea said. 

“Just give us a little time. Oliver will find it before his encore performance.”

“I will?”

“Here—” Before Oliver could protest, Bea pulled out the rider and scribbled an addendum on her sister’s back. 

Maddox’s mother read through the updated agreement and checked her watch. 

“Okay,” she said. 

“You three have thirteen minutes—watch the Candycano clock—until Oliver’s next performance. We’ll expect the cat back by then. Does that sound good, Maddox?”

“Sure, whatever,” he said to his mother.

Just before Maddox snuck out the door, he whispered so only Oliver (and Benny) could hear, “If you don’t find the cat, I’ll make Joe beat you up.” 

Gulp!

As everyone knew, Joe, the biggest kid in the third grade, did everything Maddox told him to. 

If he said to beat them up, then— POW

Bea and Maddox’s mother shook hands, not realizing Maddox had just made his own secret amendment to the deal.

Our friends had thirteen minutes to solve the mystery. 

Or else. 

As for Benny, he was oddly silent, but Oliver’s head felt suddenly very warm and very wet.

“Does anybody else want some candy?” asked Teenie. 

INTERMISSION

Have a carrot!

I think it’s a good time for us to take a break as well. 

May I suggest the bathroom? 

Or perhaps a chocolate chip cookie?

(Just please no cookies in the bathroom.)

See you in a few minutes.

Chapter 8
The Who, the What, and the Where

A moment later, our three friends were huddling in the shadow of the Candycano.

After they’d had their fill of jelly beans and Skittles, but before they’d moved on to candy corn or Red Vines, Bea pulled out her notebook. 

Behind her, the Candycano gurgled ominously. 

Chocolate lava trickled down the sides—a warning of things to come.

The Mystery of the Missing Robo-Kitty, Bea wrote.

“Okay, here’s the game,” she said. 

“We’re detectives and a robotic cat has been stolen.”

“It’s not a game,” Oliver pointed out.

Bea looked at him as if he were being very silly. 

“Yeah, but the rules are the same.”

Teenie nodded in agreement. 

“Rules are rules.” 

Exactly, and if we're detectives, the rule is we need magnifying glasses.

Those are for archeologist! 

Detectives too!

Fine, but we also need night vision goggles.

You can weat goggles, I'm wearing a invisibility cloak.

...

No fair!

I want an invisibility cloak too!

Oliver was getting worried. 

“I don’t think we have any of those things.”

“Darn! He’s right,” said Teenie. 

“Should we play Super Fairies instead?”

“Let’s just summarize what we know so far,” said Bea. 

“It all comes down to the Who, the What, and the Where. For example, Ms. Peacock with the knife in the dining room. So—who are our suspects?”

“You, me, and Oliver,” said Teenie quickly.

Bea wrote their names down under the heading SUSPECTS. 

“But none of us did it,” said Oliver, who was looking at the countdown clock and beginning to panic. 

“Oliver, stop being so negative! Actually, that’s a good point,” she admitted, crossing out their names. 

“I’ll be the Who. My job will be to look for new suspects.”

“What am I looking for?” Teenie asked.

“You’re the What. The weapon.”

“But there isn’t a weapon. Unless . . .” 

Teenie’s eyes widened. 

“Are you saying the robo-kitty was killed?”

“No! I mean, I don’t think so, but it was stolen,” said Bea. 

“What was it stolen with? That’s the question. What do you need to move a robot?”

“A phone,” said Oliver.

Bea glared at her friend. 

“If you won’t help, at least be silent.”

“An app,” said Teenie. 

“The robot runs on an app!”

“Yes, that’s it!” said Bea. 

“And for an app you need . . . a phone. So the weapon is a phone?”

“That’s what I said,” said Oliver. 

“Don’t gloat, Oliver. It’s not nice. Teenie, your job will to be to look at people’s phones for the RK-D2 app.”

Teenie nodded gravely. 

“Those phones will never see me coming. A Super Fairy moves silently and cannot be seen.” 

She demonstrated by hiding behind a potted palm tree.

Bea pointed to Oliver. 

“You’re the Where.”

“Huh?”

“You investigate the crime scene. Maddox said the cat was last seen in the kitchen, right? Start there.”

For Benny, who had been listening inside Oliver’s hat, this was too much. 

“Crime scene?!” he whispered hoarsely. 

“We can’t go there. Think! It’s bound to be swarming with police.”

Bea looked at Oliver askance. 

“Did you say ‘swarming with fleas’? Maddox doesn’t have any pets.”

“No, I . . . Never mind, I’ll go,” said Oliver unhappily.

“Great,” Bea said. 

“We’ll meet back here in T-minus nine minutes. Everyone, synchronize your watches!”

None of them had watches, so the synchronizing went fast.

“Okay, go!”

Teenie ran off.

Bea buried her head in her notebook, leaving their reluctant fellow detectives, Oliver and Benny, to investigate the scene of the crime.

Now, please don’t think Bea was shirking her own detective duties. 

It’s true that there was a novel hidden inside her notebook, and, all right, she may have opened it and read a paragraph or two.

But, I promise, she quickly closed it and jumped into action.

Besides, reading a novel is an excellent way to investigate all sorts of things. 

Just think of all you’re learning about detective work right now! 

Chapter 9

The Investigation, Part One

OLIVER: THE WHERE 

THE WHERE (the scene of the crime)

Oliver wasn’t sure where the kitchen was, but he followed a caterer holding a near-empty tray of miniature churros.

“Grab me one of those, would ya?” Benny requested. 

“If I’m going on the lam again I need a full tummy.”

“The lamb? Is there a lamb here?” asked Oliver. 

“I thought the petting zoo was all reptiles.”

“On the lam, Ollie. On the run from the law.”

“Oh.”

“You’re going to have to know the lingo if you’re going to keep going to parties like this one.”

The kitchen was bigger than Oliver’s whole apartment. 

Maddox had said the robo-kitty went missing from the kitchen island, but there were three islands in the kitchen.

“A kitchen archipelago,” Benny whispered. 

Oliver didn’t know what archipelago meant, but it sounded scary. 

(It’s a group of islands, if you’re curious.)

“Well, what now, Ollie? You gonna dust for fingerprints?” the bunny asked.

Ollie looked around the kitchen in despair. 

Even if he knew how to dust for fingerprints, he wouldn’t be able to; the islands were covered with catering equipment and piles of food.

“Get these out to section seven!”

Oliver didn’t realize he was the one being shouted at until he was handed a tray of juice boxes. 

With his fancy jacket, he’d been mistaken for a waiter.

Oliver started to sweat. 

He didn’t know how to investigate a crime scene, he didn’t know how to be a waiter, he didn’t know where section seven was, or even if he should accept tips.

Then he saw Joe, headed right toward him with a big trash bag.

“Out of my way!” 

“What a nice young man, taking out the trash like that,” Benny said, watching Joe go.

Oliver picked himself up, along with a few juice boxes. 

“Actually, maybe it’s not nice to say so, but Joe’s not nice at all.”

“Huh, very suspicious.” 

Benny scratched his own head and Oliver’s at the same time. 

“Maybe you should investigate.”

“You’re right!” 

In his excitement, Oliver was about to run out of the kitchen. 

Then he realized he’d forgotten something. 

“Hey, Benny? How do you investigate?” 

“Well, you want to trail that kid, right?” 

Benny jumped down, using the hat as a parachute. 

He reached back into the hat and grabbed a pair of sunglasses. 

“Did you bring a disguise?”

“I didn’t even bring swim trunks.”

“Kid, this is a pool party!” Benny shook his head. 

“Anyway, we’ll have to be careful.” 

You'll need a disguise.

Walk on tiptopes.

Hide behind bushes.

Sneak!

But don't creep!

That's... creep.

“’Course your best bet, to avoid being seen at all, is to run away,” said Benny.

“I can’t run away!” said Oliver. 

“What about Bea and Teenie!”

“You do what you want, but I gotta split. Those wise guys in Reno, they put a tail on me.”

“You weren’t born with one?”

“I’m talking about the fuzz, kid.”

“Your tail’s not fuzzy?” 

Now Oliver was really confused.

“My tail’s plenty fuzzy, thank you very much! The fuzz are the police. You think those coppers are coming here for some kid’s cat toy? I don’t think so.”

By now they were outside. 

Joe was nowhere to be seen.

“But I need your help finding Joe,” 

Oliver said desperately. 

“Where would the garbage go?”

“How should I know? Do I look like a map?”

“The map! You sure are smart, Benny. And not just for a bunny.”

Oliver unfolded his party map.

“What are you saying—most bunnies are dumb?”

“No. No. Not at all! You’d be smart, no matter what kind of . . . small furry animal you were.”

The rabbit looked as though he had a few choice furry words for Oliver. 

“I’ll get you as far as the garbage. Then you’re on your own, Ollie.”

“Refuse and Recycling?” said Oliver, studying the map. 

“You think that means garbage?”

“Well, it don’t mean roses.”

(True. Unless you refuse roses. Then they become refuse, pronounced REH-fuse, as well. Personally, I always refuse roses, except when they come with chocolate.) 
BEA: THE WHO 

THE WHO (suspects)

Now that Teenie and Oliver had gone, other kids were starting to come up to the Candycano for their sugar fix. 

Bea found that if she kept her nose in her notebook, they barely noticed that she was there, and they spoke freely amongst themselves. 

Maybe she would find her suspect just by standing still and listening!

After all, the Genius Fairies always said “Observation is the key to understanding.” 

And eavesdropping is just observing with your ears, right?

Bea had always assumed that her classmates said clever and fascinating things when she wasn’t around.

Why else would they be so much more interested in each other than they were in her? 

But listening to them now she was forced to admit that she’d been wrong.

Here are some of the things she heard: 

My mom says doing a belly flop off the high dive can rupture your internal organs.

Cool. Let's try it!

I hear that Candycano is just filled with mint candy and diet soda, but enough to blow up a house.

Whoa. Let's try it!

Maddox's pool has a detector that turns bright green if someone pees underwater. 

Awesome. Let's try it!

And so Bea learned an important lesson. 

While her classmates did all share a characteristic that she lacked, it wasn’t that they were clever and fascinating. 

It was that they were all willing to do crazy, possibly dangerous things. 

Alas, she was still no closer to identifying a suspect in the Case of the Missing Robo-Kitty.

Then something caught her eye: a red line snaking away from the Candycano. 

It was a licorice rope leading off into the distance. 

Why would someone leave good licorice on the ground and not eat it, she wondered.

Bea picked up the trail and followed the red rope around the Olympic-sized pool, under the lifeguard station, and into the bushes, eating the delicious evidence along the way.

TEENIE: THE WHAT THE WHAT (the weapon)

Meanwhile, Teenie was hopping around the yard, looking for a phone with the RK-D2 app.

She found Maddox’s mother lying on a chaise by the pool, texting on her phone. 

Glancing over her shoulder, Teenie could see a text thread with Maddox’s father. 

(Normally, I do not encourage spying on people’s texts, but I think we can agree that this was an exceptional circumstance.)

From the texts, Teenie learned how to operate all the TVs in the house, but that wasn’t much help in their investigation.

As she passed the lifeguard stand, the lifeguard dropped his phone onto a towel and walked over to the edge of the pool to shout at a swimmer. 

Teenie judged she had two minutes to examine his phone. 

She grabbed it before the screen locked.

The lifeguard’s phone was full of selfies. 

She didn’t think he looked too great in any of them. 

Then again, maybe she wasn’t a very good judge, she admitted to herself.

The only other picture was one of Oliver in a magic store, wearing his top hat. 

An odd coincidence, yes. 

But again, not very helpful.

Most of the other partygoers didn’t have phones. 

Except Maddox, who’d left his on a rock when he went swimming. 

He must have been playing a game on the phone, because as soon as Teenie turned it on the screen was swarming with zombies.

“AAAAAAH!” 

Startled, she dropped the phone into a puddle.

Quickly, she wiped it off. 

Hopefully, there wouldn’t be lasting damage.

Feeling a little discouraged, Teenie went back to the Candycano to look for her sister, but Bea was gone. 

A lot of candy was gone too. 

Fortunately, a lot more was still there. 

An entire mountain of candy, in fact.

After all that hard work, Teenie figured she deserved a short break and a sweet or two. 

A sour gummy. Some Skittles. 

She loved Skittles. 

Maybe a few cookies. 

According to the countdown clock she still had five minutes. 

Plenty of time to solve the case.

Chapter 10
The Investigation, Part Two

OLIVER: THE WHERE, PART TWO 

THE WHERE (the scene of the crime)
The Kitchen
Oliver
Refuse + Recycling

Holding his map open, Oliver walked around the house, toward the Refuse and Recycling area. 

Holding the top hat over his head, Benny followed as discreetly as he could.

As soon as they rounded the corner, they saw the trash bins. 

And there was Joe, up to his shoulders in the trash, looking for something. 

Oliver nudged Benny. 

“Hey, there he is!”

Benny looked up from under the brim of the hat and glanced nervously at their surroundings. 

“Keep it down!”

He nodded to the nearest trash bin. 

They ducked behind it and watched Joe, still digging in the trash.

“All right, we found him,” said Benny. 

“Now it’s time I hit the road.”

Oliver looked down at his rabbit friend in distress.  

“Please don’t go yet! What about the encore performance?”

“Sorry. It ain’t only the cops, kid. I got dreams.” 

The bunny reached into the top hat and pulled out a small piece of cardboard. 

It had a picture of the sun setting over a green farm. 

“See this—Kern County. That’s where I’m headed. Time to settle down. Get a warren of my own. Someplace I can raise a small family of forty or fifty . . .” 
Kern County Farms
Box Tops 4 Corporations
No Essential Vitamins
Less Essential Minerals
Just Sodium

Oliver examined the picture. 

“You know that’s a cereal box top, right?”

Irritated, Benny snatched the cardboard back.

“That don’t mean the farm ain’t real!”

Their argument was interrupted by a loud “MEOW!”

The robo-cat! 

Oliver thought, but just then, a large possum scurried from behind the bins.

Oliver frowned. 

“Benny, do possums meow?” 

MEOW?

“Benny?” 

Oliver repeated.

Benny might not have heard the question, but Joe did. 

He spotted Oliver spying on him. 

The big bully grabbed a wad of trash and tossed it at his smaller classmate.

“Trying to steal the trash too, huh?” Joe sneered.

“Sorry, I was looking for the stolen robo-cat,” said Oliver bravely. 

“Thought I heard a meow.”

“No you didn’t,” Joe insisted. 

“You heard this!”

He dumped the remaining trash over Oliver’s head, and walked away, having made his point.

Oliver wiped the garbage and a few tears from his eyes.

He knew what he had heard. 

Joe was hiding something. 

Something that walked and talked like a cat.

“I think we have our suspect, Benny,” said Oliver in an excited whisper, while wiping off milky cereal. 

“The cat burglar is Joe!” 

SUSPECT #1: Joe: the Muscle 

“Except a cat burglar is actually a nighttime burglar, huh?” continued Oliver. 

“Not somebody who steals cats. But you know what I mean. Well, anyway . . . Why do you think he did it? You think he was jealous of Maddox maybe?”

Oliver glanced around, but he didn’t see the rabbit. 

Or even the hat.

“Benny?” 

He didn’t get an answer because Benny was gone.

Still sticky and dripping cereal, Oliver checked all the obvious rabbit spots, like the vegetable garden and the salad bar, but he saw no furry white animals or even any roving top hats.

Three minutes left on the countdown clock, and still no sign of Benny.

Beginning to despair, Oliver glanced under the lifeguard tower, only to jump back in alarm when the lifeguard blew his whistle. 

Oliver looked up to see his cousin Spencer, who had traded in his magic store uniform for orange trunks and a life preserver.i

Oliver was not especially surprised. Spencer was trying to buy a car, so he took any job he was qualified for—and any job that he was unqualified for. 

“Spencer, have you seen a rabbit anywhere?”

“I’m on lifeguard duty,” said Spencer with more than a trace of self-importance. 

“My eyes have been locked like laser beams on this pool. So unless your rabbit is a plastic flotation device . . . What happened to you, Oliver? You smell horrible. You should jump in the pool and clean up.”

“But I don’t have a swimsuit.”

“Dude, this is a pool party!”

“That’s what he said.”

“Who?”

“Nobody.”

Oliver wanted to keep searching for Benny, but Spencer blew his whistle a second time, causing Oliver to trip over a long red candy rope and fall right into the pool. 

SPLASH!

What would he do without Benny, Oliver wondered as he plunged deep underwater. 

A second ago, he was a triumphant detective. 

Now he was just another failed, sopping wet magician. 

There was no way he could perform without his rabbit partner.

BEA: THE WHO, PART TWO 

THE WHO (suspects)

Bea didn’t notice that she’d caused her friend to trip. 

She figured Oliver must have dived into the pool in search of clues.

Having followed the licorice rope as it snaked away from the Candycano, and wound around the pool and under the lifeguard tower, she now found herself nearing the end of her long red trail: the craft table.

At the craft table, Memphis sat alone, talking on a walkie-talkie.

Memphis had never seemed to be the crafty type. 

What was she doing there? 

And who was she talking to?

In front of Memphis was an elaborate castle that she was building from brightly colored plastic blocks. 

All over the table, she had spread diagrams and plans. 

None of which seemed to relate to the box that the blocks came in. 

“That doesn’t look like the castle on the box,” said Bea, walking up.

Memphis put down a block. 

“This is more of a challenge.”

“What is?” Bea asked. 

“What are you building?”

“Stop bothering me!” Memphis sneered. 

“Don’t you and your sister have more presents to steal? And where’s your dumb friend, the ‘magician’?”

Bea eyed the block structure. 

Not only was Memphis not building the castle on the box, she wasn’t building a castle at all. 

She was building a model of a large suburban house. 

Maddox’s house.

As for the papers on the table, they included a map of Maddox’s home, and the instructions for the RK-D2!

“Aha!” 

Bea exclaimed to herself, and made a note in her book. 

SUSPECT #2: Memphis: the Brains

“Bye, Memphis!” she said cheerfully.

Then she trotted off to tell Teenie and Oliver about her discovery, eating the remaining licorice rope all the way back to the Candycano.

TEENIE: THE WHAT, PART TWO 

THE WHAT (the weapon)

Back at the Candycano, Teenie was still eating sweets. 

She ate: 

Gummy bears 
Gummy worm 
Chocolate 
Candy-coated chocolate 
Candy-coated peanut butter
Peanut butter and celery with raisins (which had no business on the Candycano, but she ate it anyway) 
Yogurt raisins (which she hated, but still had seven just to be sure)

All that candy had made her a little jumpy.

Actually, it had made her very jumpy. 

She leaped away from the table onto the diving board and straight over the deepest part of the pool and onto the other side.

With a loud whistle, the lifeguard shouted, “No jumping! 

Although I admit that was really cool!”

“Thanks!”

Teenie kept going past the Jacuzzi and DJ booth. 

She cartwheeled through the tennis court and hopped on one leg under the regulation basketball hoop. 

She walked on her hands through the cactus garden and scaled the climbing wall with her eyes closed. 

Finally, she arrived at the enormous bouncy castle.

Never had she felt a stronger urge to bounce.Kicking her shoes off, she jumped right over the Slip ’N Slide moat and into the center of the castle. 

Jayden, Joe, and Maddox were already there, trying and failing to do flips. 

Teenie could do a double flip, backward and forward. 

She decided this was a perfect chance to show off.

“Hey, get out of here!” 

Maddox shouted. 

“You thief! I told your friend if you don’t give back the cat, Joe will beat you up.”

This was the first Teenie had heard about getting beaten up. 

Until now she’d thought the worse the day could get would be a call to her dads.

Joe didn’t know about the planned assault either, but he took it in stride. 

“Yeah, get out of here before I beat you up.”

“Besides, this bouncy castle is only regulated for . . .” 

Jayden calculated on his watch to be sure. 

“Three people.”

“Yeah!” 

Joe agreed like always.

Teenie didn’t think this was true. 

A massive inflatable birthday attraction like this one could easily hold a dozen more children. 

It had two floors, parapets, and even a dungeon.

Teenie started to protest, but Maddox stopped her. 

“Joe, get her out of here.”

With that, Joe picked up Teenie and tossed her straight into the moat. 

She slid all around the castle and back to the entrance, where the other children had left their shoes. 

Teenie counted five sets of sneakers, including her own. 

While she was being tossed out they’d let Memphis in without any questions. 

Teenie was furious. 

She decided that the most sensible response was to tie their shoes together.

She started with Maddox’s and Memphis’s limited edition Air Mikes. 

Then moved on to Joe’s rip-off version of the same shoes. 

Jayden’s shoes didn’t even have laces, but instead tightened with a mobile app. 

She’d have to use his phone, which was conveniently stuck inside his left shoe.

Teenie gasped as she picked up Jayden’s phone. 

The screen lit up with the RK-D2 app.

“Aha!” she exclaimed.

Still shoeless, Teenie ran to tell Bea and Oliver how she’d cracked the case. 

SUSPECT #3: Jayden: the Technician

Chapter 11"
Rabbit, Run

Benny was feeling jittery. 

He didn’t like possums, for the obvious reason that possums are made out of nightmares and teeth. 

He didn’t like cats either, to be honest, not even robotic ones. 

Never mind those big cats onstage in Vegas. 

Boo!

And then there were the cops and who knew how many bounty hunters after him by this point. 

All because of one lousy bet. 

Could he be blamed for betting all his money on a horse named Turnip Thunder? 

Turnip was his favorite root vegetable!

Well, no more turnip for him. 

The only thing turned ip—or up—these days was the heat. 

And it was turned way, way up. 

If he ever wanted to get to Kern County, he’d have to start hopping. 

Fast.

First, he had to bust out of this party. 

But how? 

Half the backyard was taken up by the giant swimming pool.

Rabbits don’t swim. 

Period. 

And everywhere you looked, there were children.

Screaming. 

Splashing. 

Whipping towels. 

It was a zoo.

He hopped a low fence and found himself in some sort of enclosed garden. 

Here it was unexpectedly peaceful. 

Only one kid. 

The girl with cat ears. 

She sat talking to what appeared to be a toad. 

They both seemed harmless enough. 

Unless the toad was about to turn into a prince, but that seemed unlikely.

Perhaps he should hunker down here for a bit? 

At least until the heat was off him? 

There was even some food and torn newspaper spread around the ground.

I could get used to this, Benny thought, piecing together a sports page. 

(Even as a touring magician’s rabbit, Benny had insisted that his bedding be changed daily, always with the latest sports page, for cleanliness—and for betting on horses.) 

But something was wrong, he realized, looking at the ground more closely. 

The food wasn’t for rabbits. 

Rabbits eat vegetables. 

Here it was all bugs. 

Crickets, worms, even ants.

This was no rabbit warren, that was certain.

A field mouse darted by.

“Say, buddy,” Benny said. 

“Watch where you’re going!”

The mouse, running at top speed, turned only to yell: AYIYAAAAAAAAAAAAH!

Sheesh, Benny thought. 

Mice are so rude.

Benny had never much cared for mice, who were terrible magicians and worse comics. 

He’d take a dove over a mouse any day, and don’t even get him started on doves.

He decided to investigate a little further.

Hat on his head, he hopped over a hollow log and a wobbly stack of stones, only to confront a plastic baby pool. 

Why a baby pool with such a large in-ground pool nearby?

Nothing made any sense until he saw an unwelcome sign: 

Reptile Petting Zoo
You've got to be kidding me!
Ssssssssssssssss!
YELP!
What did I sssssay?

Terrified, Benny landed in the baby pool, splashing the shallow water.

He was momentarily safe from the snake, but then a monitor lizard snuck out from behind a rock. 

The lizard’s long tongue flicked in the air as the lizard clawed its way into the pool and approached our dear rabbit.

Benny scampered up the slide on the side of the pool and made a leap for a nearby rock. 

The rock was sloped and bumpy, and his feet slipped as he tried to catch hold. 

Just as he’d steadied himself, the rock rose in the air. 

Because it wasn’t a rock. 

It was a tortoise. 

A very old, very unhappy tortoise.

“Slow down, stranger,” said the tortoise. 

“You think you can just hop a ride?”

“Ack!” Benny yelped. 

“You can talk?!”

“I’m 125 years old,” the tortoise said, insulted. 

“I’ve learned a trick or two.”

“125 and still performing for children’s birthday parties,” said Benny, sliding off. 

“Tough gig.”

“Maybe so,” said the tortoise, eyeing Benny’s top hat.

“That’s one funny-looking shell you got there.”

“Ha! That’s a good one,” said Benny, not meaning it. 

“You don’t by chance know the way out of here, do you, old man?”

“Sure I do,” said the tortoise.

The bunny waited, but the tortoise didn’t say anything more.

“Well?” prompted Benny. 

“Where’s the exit?”

“Far away.”

“Where far away?”

The tortoise looked Benny up and down. 

He seemed to be weighing his desire not to help the rabbit against his desire for the rabbit to leave.

“A half day’s journey to the north,” he said finally, nodding across the small enclosure. 

“But a young hare like you should make it in half that time. Wanna race?”

“The Tortoise and the Hare, huh?” said Benny, already hopping away.

“You’re a real comedian.”

He was home free. 

He would run out the back gate, down the alley, and over to a bus stop before the cops could even catch wise. 

In no time at all, he’d be on the five o’clock “Sunsetter” train to Kern County.

But just as he was about to make his final escape, the Candycano clock caught his eye. 

Two minutes until explosion. 

Meaning two minutes until showtime.

Showtime.

The word flashed in his head like a Vegas marquee. 

Magic Showtime

He’d never missed a show in his life. 

Even in the days when they were throwing tomatoes at him—and no, those tomatoes weren’t for him to eat.

Could he really leave Oliver in the lurch? 

The boy’s classmates were worse than a pack of wolves. 

They would eat Oliver alive.

The rabbit looked into the deep dark recesses of his hat and he knew what he had to do. 

The country life would have to wait a little longer. 

He was still a magician’s rabbit, and a magician’s rabbit never abandons his magician.

But how to get back to Oliver in time? 

There were snakes and swimming pools and a ridiculously large suburban backyard between them.

Just then he saw the girl with the cat ears petting a lizard. 

That girl had sucker written all over her. 

Swallowing his pride, Benny put on his best sad bunny face, and hopped on over. 

He knew it was risky, catching a ride with a girl like Rose. 

No doubt she would pet his head, and talk to him as if he were her “wittle baby bunny.” 

She might even—oh please no!—nuzzle his nose. 

It would be humiliating. 

But it was time to take one for the team.

He lived by one credo, and one credo only: The show must go on. 

Chapter 12
Alibis, Alibis, Alibis

Out of breath, Teenie ran back to the Candycano, only to find Oliver pacing back and forth, still soaking wet from the pool, and chomping through cake pops. 

Above him the countdown continued.

“Have you seen my rabbit?” he asked immediately.

“No,” said Teenie. 

“But I know who did it! I know who the burglar is!”

“Oh, so do I,” said Oliver, who was more concerned about Benny at the moment.

“And so do I!” said Bea, who had just arrived. 

She held her notebook in the air, excited to share her discovery. 

“I’ll go first.”

“No, I will!” said Teenie. 

“You always go first.”

“That’s not true—you do!”

Before the issue could be resolved, a red siren started whirling above the volcano, along with a swirl of cotton candy smoke. 

Eruption in one minute, noted the countdown clock. 

Candycano
Countdown 
Minutes
Just straight sugar
salad
gum?
Licorice Ropes

“Well,” said Maddox’s mother, walking up to them with her son and his friends in tow. 

“Did you figure it out? Maddox wants his robotic dog back, and—”

“You mean cat!” several voices corrected her.

“Robotic cat, yes. And I must admit I’m very curious to find out what happened to it.”

“We each figured it out by ourselves,” Bea said proudly. 

“We know who stole the RK-D2!”

“Duh,” Maddox replied. 

“You did.”

“Nope,” said Oliver.

“Nuh-uh,” Bea said.

“No way,” said Teenie.

They each took a deep breath and shouted: 

It was Joe!
It was Memphis!
It was Jayden!

Oliver, Bea, and Teenie looked at one another in surprise. 

They had identified three separate suspects: Joe, Memphis, and Jayden.

Maddox laughed. 

“You guys can’t even get your stories straight.”

“But I know it was Joe,” Oliver said. 

“He took out the garbage and I heard it MEOW!”

Maddox rolled his eyes. 

“Joe does all my chores.”

“What about Jayden?” Teenie said. 

“He had the RK-D2 app open on his phone.”

“Ha!” Maddox said.

“Jayden does all my homework. I gave him the app. I’m not going to learn some computer program just to play with a toy.”

Jayden high-fived Maddox in what appeared to be agreement.

“Well, what about Memphis?” Bea said. 

“She had the instructions for the RK-D2, along with heist plans and a block model of the house.”

“So? She does all my scheming for me. How am I supposed to prank my teachers with no one to plan it.”

It seemed that Maddox had an excuse for everything. 

Bea made one last try.

“But why did she have the instructions for the RK-D2?”

“That’s easy,” Maddox explained. 

“Memphis does all of Jayden’s homework.”

Memphis nodded. 

“Besides, none of us could have taken that robot. We were all watching Oliver’s stupid magic show.”

“I’m afraid that’s true,” said Maddox’s mom. 

“There must be another explanation.” 

The Who (suspects)
BEA (AKA me!) is on the case!
Joe
Memphis
Jayden
Maddox


“But there’s nobody else!” 

Bea wailed, looking down at her notebook. 

“All the possible suspects were at the show.”

Maddox tilted his head toward Oliver, Bea, and Teenie. 

“You guys took the cat. And that’s that.”

He looked meaningfully at his friend Joe. 

“Remember what I said before?”

“Sure thing, boss.” 

Joe eyed his three future victims as if they were tasty snacks. 

“I remember.”

“Perhaps I should call your fathers after all,” said Maddox’s mother.

Oliver, Bea, and Teenie needed someone or something to save them fast.

“At least let Oliver do the magic show first!” said Bea, stalling.

At that moment, Rose approached holding an old magician’s hat and a very squirmy rabbit.

“I’ve always wanted a rabbit,” she said dreamily. 

“He’s so soft and cuddly, but I could have sworn I heard him cursing.”

“Benny, you’re back!” 

Thrilled, Oliver held the rabbit and the hat to his heart.

“Yeah, and I almost got cuddled to death,” Benny whined.

“Let’s get this straight,” he continued as Oliver quickly walked out of earshot of the others. 

“I do one more show, then I’m out. Bye-bye, kiddie pools and cat girls. Hello to my new warren and forty baby Bennys. Got that?”

“Okay, I got it! What trick are we going to start with?”

“Too bad you can’t do a simple arrow catch,” sighed Benny. 

“But under the circumstances, let’s go straight to the Four Jacks. I’ll walk you through it.”

“The Four Jacks! Benny, you’re a genius!”

“I’ve always thought so,” said the rabbit modestly. 

“But you’d be surprised the prejudice some people have against rabbits.”

“You solved the case!”

“The case? I like that . . .” mused Benny. 

“In a way, every magic show is a case. A mystery to be solved—”

“The criminal case.”

Benny snorted. 

“You mean my gambling debts? Kid, it’s gonna take more than a card trick to solve that one.”

“No, I mean the robo—”

“Oliver!” 

Bea called out. 

“It’s time for the show.”

“You know, you look kind of crazy talking to yourself like that,” Teenie whispered when he returned to the Candycano.

“Couldn’t you just, I don’t know, think to yourself instead?”

Oliver was saved from responding when Bea shouted, “Watch out!”

Startled, Oliver fell backward into the volcano just as a chocolate geyser and a shower of sprinkles erupted from the top. 

He slid to the ground, looking like a hot fudge sundae.

The only things missing were whipped cream and a cherry. 

Chapter 13
The Four Jokers

A moment later, the party was reassembled for part two of the magic show, with Oliver, Bea, and Teenie standing onstage. 

Not just Teenie, but all three of them were now bouncing with nervous energy. 

Oliver especially.

Still wet, he was trying to warm up.

“Listen, Ollie,” whispered the rabbit in his ear.

“Magic is make-believe, right? There’s always a little storytelling involved. But with the Four Jacks, storytelling is everything.”

“I told you, I only have four jokers,” said Oliver under his breath.

“Call it the Four Jokers then,” said Benny. 

“The point is, you need characters . . . atmosphere . . . suspense. And, of course, you need to know what’s being stolen. You got something in mind?”

“Yep.” 

That part he knew from the beginning.

“My go-to is carrots. Stolen carrots. It’s a pun, see, because carats is how they measure diamonds. But I’m a rabbit, and rabbits eat—”

“I get it, Benny.”

By now the crowd was getting a little restless. 

“Are you gonna start already?!” shouted Maddox.

“Just a second,” said Bea.

“Magic takes time!” said Teenie.

They shot hurry-up looks at Oliver. 

In truth, they were getting antsy too.

“Okay, okay,” he said.

Inside the hat, Benny prepared Oliver’s deck of cards with the four jokers at the top. 

He handed them down to Oliver to show the crowd. 

With Benny prompting him at every step, Oliver started telling the story of the Four Jokers.

“This trick takes place at a birthday party,” Oliver began. 

“It was a big party. The whole third grade was invited—almost. But this wasn’t a regular birthday party. It was also a robbery. The Four Jokers Robbery.”

Oliver showed all four jokers to the audience, who now sat on the edge of their seats, their attention rapt. 

Being part of the birthday party, they were part of the story.

Part of the magic.

Holding up the jokers one by one, he told the story of the robbery. 

“The first joker was the muscle,” Oliver announced, sliding a card to the bottom of the deck. 

“He did the heavy lifting. He took the birthday present and hid it under the garbage and out of sight.”

Joe shifted in his seat. 

Because he was so big, the seat almost fell over.

“Now, the second joker.” 

Oliver pulled another card from the top, then moved the card to the middle of the deck. 

“She stayed in the middle, acting as the brains. Giving instructions and making sure all details of the plan worked.”

Memphis scanned the crowd to see if anyone looked her way. 

“The third joker.” 

Oliver held yet another card. 

“He was good at computers, a real technician. He programmed the robo-cat so they could sneak it out right under everyone’s noses.”

Jayden checked his phone as Oliver inserted the third card near the top of the deck. 

“But here’s the thing. None of those three could have done it alone. And that’s why the plan was so good. Someone had to have stolen the birthday present in the first place.”

Finally, Oliver revealed the fourth joker.

“The fourth joker. He stayed upstairs out of trouble, but he was the mastermind. He planned the robbery, and pinned it on this unsuspecting magician and his friends.”

Maddox started to boo! but his mother shushed him.

“Once the coast was clear,” Oliver continued, “the fourth joker called up all the other thieves.”

Oliver kept one joker in his hand and then removed the top three cards of the deck. 

One by one, he revealed the other three jokers. 

It seemed as though they’d all magically traveled up through the deck.

“And then they got away with the stolen gift . . .” Oliver said. 

Somehow, he’d pulled off the trick perfectly. 

Murmurs of “How’d he do that?” and “Wow!” spread throughout the audience.

Everyone stood and clapped. 

Everyone except Maddox, Memphis, Jayden, and Joe.

“Well, they almost got away,” said Oliver.

Teenie and Bea looked at him in surprise. 

“Almost?”

“Almost,” repeated Oliver. 

“The four jokers, or four burglars, they were Memphis, Jayden, Joe, and—”

“But it couldn’t have been us, remember?” said Memphis, who was shifting nervously in her seat. 

“Everyone was right here.”

“Yeah, we have alibis!” said Jayden.

“Right. That’s why there had to be one more. And who was the fourth burglar?” Oliver paused, drawing out the suspense. 

“I’ll give you a hint. It’s his birthday.”

“Maddox!” Bea shouted, finally figuring it all out and making a last note in her book. 

suspect #4
Maddox: the Mastermind

“Right! Maddox is the fourth joker—I mean, burglar!” Teenie exclaimed. 

“He was the only one missing, so he’s the only one who could have taken the RK-D2.”

Almost everyone gasped and burst into applause. 

Clap
Clap
Clap
Clap
Clap
Clap
Clap

And with the applause came the housekeeper holding the birthday cake. It was the biggest cake Oliver had ever
seen. He started clapping as well—for the cake. 

Chapter 14
The Middle Name Drop

“Would you explain it all again?” Maddox’s mom asked Oliver. 

“Slowly this time.”

With the accusation and the cake, the party had come to a close. 

Each guest went home with a gift bag, a toy of their choice, and a promise not to repeat anything they’d seen or heard.

Now the four burglars, along with Oliver, Teenie, and Maddox’s mom, were gathered around the living room’s conversation pit.

“It’s simple,” said Oliver, his mouth half-full with his third slice of cake. 

“The four jokers were at the top of the deck the whole time. I just hid three random cards behind the first joker and used those instead.” 

“Not the trick,” Maddox’s mother clarified, although she was glad to know how he’d performed the trick, as it had been bothering her. 

“The crime.”

“Oh. Um . . .” 

Oliver wanted to explain, but he’d just taken another bite of cake.

Luckily, Bea was paying attention. 

She opened her notebook.

“When Maddox went upstairs with the RK-D2, he didn’t play with it, he put it in the trash,” she explained. 

“Then Joe took the trash with the cat secretly inside. Meanwhile, Memphis monitored the whole operation, telling everyone what to do when. And Jayden used the app on his phone to make the RK-D2 go where they wanted it to.”

“Well . . .” 

Maddox’s mother was still confused. 

“Then where’s the cat now?”

“Check Jayden’s phone,” said Teenie.

Jayden resisted at first, but then handed his phone over to Maddox’s mom. 

She put on her reading glasses to look at the app. 

“Do any of you know how to work this thing?”

Jayden raised his hand, but Teenie took the phone and showed Maddox’s mom how it worked.

“You just press this button here. That tells the cat it’s dinnertime. She should come back to the phone right away.” 

Steps of the crime
Maddox opens gift. Meow
Puts cat in Kitchen trash. Meow
Joe takes out trash. Meow
Memphis gives the signal. Go!
Jayden opens cat app.
Meow! Cat walks out of the party.

From around the corner, they heard a meow. 

Which sounded just like the possum from earlier, Oliver thought. 

The cat purred as it approached the phone.

With the RK-D2’s return, all the evidence was on the table.

Maddox’s mom finally showed her anger.

“Maddox Mortimer Marmor!”

The other children all gasped.

“She used his middle name!” 

Memphis whispered to Jayden, who was too shocked by the day’s events to hear.

Spencer, who had just walked in from the pool, tiptoed out again. 

He didn’t want any part of the fury coming after a middle name drop.

“You need to apologize to Oliver, Bea, and Teenie this instant,” said Maddox’s mother.

Maddox refused. 

“It wasn’t my idea, it was the clown’s!”

“Yeah,” Memphis joined in. 

“He said he’d cut us in on the proceeds.”

“The clown?” 

Maddox’s mother had tried to forget the clown from earlier. 

Whenever possible, it’s best to not think about clowns for too long.

Spencer stepped back into the room.

Despite the drama, he had to get paid.

“Hey, Mrs. M,” Spencer said. 

“Do you have that check for me?”

“Yes, of course, dear.” 

Maddox’s mother forced a smile.

“Here you go. Oh, and here’s your check too, Oliver. You earned it.”

Oliver and Spencer both smiled at their checks. 

Though Oliver had no idea what to do with a check. 

He supposed it would fit in his piggy bank.

“Thanks, Mrs. M,” Spencer said. 

“But hey, that wasn’t really a clown earlier.”

This information came as a surprise to nearly everyone. 

He’d certainly looked like a clown. 

But then Oliver realized who it was.

“It was the Great Zoocheeni!” Oliver said at the same time as Spencer.

“Yeah,” Spencer added. 

“How did you not notice? He still had his cape on.” 

Suspect??
Zoocheeni: the Great
Clowns?
Zoocheeni, The Great
Zoocheeni, Paloma

Clearly, Oliver had a long way to go as both a magician and a detective.

“But why was he here?” Maddox’s mother asked. 

“We’d already booked a magician.”

“He didn’t like anyone stepping on his turf,” Spencer explained. 

“Zoocheeni told me ‘That Oliver kid has another think coming! I’ll show him.’ Then he laughed like, ‘AAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!’ I think he wants all the birthday business for himself.”

Almost as if called by name, the Great Zoocheeni burst into the room. 

He and his dove, Paloma, were both back in their traditional magician costumes. 

“Grab that cat,” Zoocheeni said, sending the dove toward the RK-D2. 

At first, he didn’t notice the people around the kitchen table.

“Oh, hello, everyone. It is I, the Great Zoocheeni. I heard your magician was a total disaster, and a burglar to boot. And I have come to save the day.”

Zoocheeni waited for applause, but nobody clapped. 

Spencer, seeing this was going to be an actual disaster, whistled out the door.

“Listen, clown, or Zoo-whoever,” Maddox’s mom said, still angry. 

“You need to leave immediately.”

“Wait, Mom!” Maddox said. 

“He hasn’t given me my money yet.”

“And he won’t!” 

She stood up. 

“You are in such trouble, young man. Wait till your father gets back from his business trip in a month.”

Zoocheeni wiped his brow and said, “Phew.” 

He had no intention of paying the children, and was glad to be let off the hook for the debt.

“Well, he still owes us money,” Memphis said.

“He told us he would wire it,” said Jayden.

“Yeah,” Joe agreed.

The three bullies pounced on the magician. 

Seeing this was not going as planned, Zoocheeni moved to disappear.

“I’ll just show myself out,” Zoocheeni said. 

With a burst of smoke, he attempted to escape with grace and mystery.

The Great Zoocheeni took one step out the door, but tripped over an unlucky rabbit’s foot. 

Benny put on his cutest, most innocent bunny face as the magician fell.

Jayden grabbed his phone from the table and took radio control over the RK-D2. 

The robotic cat swiped at the magician’s dove.

Paloma let out a startled “CAW! CAW!” and flew after her owner.

Memphis and Joe picked Zoocheeni off the ground and tossed him to the curb as Jayden and the RK-D2 chased Paloma along with him. 

Only Oliver and the twins were left at the table with Maddox and his mother.

“Great party,” Oliver said. 

“Is there any cake left?” 

Chapter 15
The After Party

The twins and Oliver left the party with goodie bags, cake, the RK-D2, and everything they could carry from the Candycano.

Back at the twins’ apartment, they spread the loot out on the table. 

It was like Halloween. 

Only this time they didn’t have to share with the twins’ dads. 

Benny used his teeth to open another whole bag of circus peanuts.

“Your rabbit seems really smart,” Bea told Oliver.

Benny took a bow and then belched. 

He’d eaten a tremendous amount of circus peanuts. 

Feeling like he might be sick, the rabbit nodded to everyone, then hopped off the table.

“Where’s he going?” Teenie asked.

“To the bathroom, I think,” Oliver said.

“Is he potty-trained?” Bea asked. 

“He can use Calico’s litter box.” 

“You mean Frida’s,” said Teenie.

Frida/Calico did not seem to like this idea or the rabbit who had invaded her space. 

She was already unhappy with the robotic cat taking her place. 

She let out an unkind HISSS.

For his part, Benny waved his fluffy tail back at the cat, then shut the bathroom door.

After a moment the toilet flushed.

“Wow,” Bea said. 

“That is a well-trained rabbit. Great job, Oliver. We can’t get our cat to do that.”

Frida/Calico looked offended, but the twins didn’t notice. 

She turned to her new robot “friend” for help. 

The robot wasn’t much help. 

“Your magic show was amazing, Oliver,” Teenie said. 

“You learned all those tricks and figured out the whole heist and everything.”

“You’re like a genius,” Bea added.

“He’s more like a Super Fairy,” Teenie corrected her sister.

“And your jacket even fits now,” said Bea. 

“It must have shrunk from getting wet.”

Oliver didn’t know what to say. 

He was never very good at receiving compliments—mostly because he’d never received any.

“Thank you,” Oliver said with a gulp. 

“I guess I did do a pretty good job. But I didn’t figure it all out on my own. I couldn’t have done it without Ben—”

Back from the bathroom, Benny gave Oliver a look. 

As much as he liked taking credit, the rabbit did not want to blow his cover.

“I mean, I couldn’t have done it without you, Beatriz and Martina,” said Oliver quickly.

Glad to be included, the twins clinked their empty teacups together.

“To the Unbelievable Oliver,” Teenie said.

“And his assistants!” Bea added. 

“Bea and Teenie and Bunny.”

“It’s Benny,” corrected Oliver. 

“Nothing bunny about it.”

THE END. 

Thank you for reading!"

ENCORE

How to Perform Oliver’s Card Trick

Have you ever wanted to stage a robbery—or even just a card trick? 

Here’s how to perform the trick called THE FOUR BURGLARS (also known as THE FOUR JACKS). 

The trick sounds a bit complicated, I admit, but with a little practice it becomes quite simple.

NEEDS:
—One deck of playing cards  
—Two hands
—A table or similar surface  
—An audience (For example, a younger sibling or supportive parent. Older siblings and unsupportive parents not recommended.)
NOTE: 
To perform the trick with four jokers, as Oliver does, you’ll need to take two jokers from a spare deck of cards and add them to your deck. 
(Most decks include only two jokers.) 
Otherwise, go the traditional route and use four jacks or four kings. 
Or if you prefer female burglars, four queens. 
In fact, you can use four of any card you like. 
If you consider the number seven to be a thievish sort of number, then by all means make your four burglars out of four sevens. 
Burglar #7

BEFORE YOU PERFORM:

Hide backstage. 

Backstage is anywhere your audience can’t see you. 

Like inside a closet, under a table, or behind the curtains. 

Remember, you are not hiding because you are nervous; you are hiding because you have to prepare your deck of cards. 

Pay no attention to the kid behind the curtain.

To prepare your deck, first remove the four jacks, or four sevens, or four of whatever card you like (SEE ABOVE).

These four cards are your BURGLARS. 

Then remove the top three cards from the deck. 

These cards are your DUMMIES. 

Place the three dummies above the four burglars, all cards facedown.

Hold these seven cards in your left hand. 

Be careful to hold them square so that nobody can see how many cards you have.

Grasping the rest of the deck with your right hand, bravely go out on stage and place the deck facedown on a table.

THE PERFORMANCE:
Still holding the remaining seven cards, begin telling your captive audience the Tale of the Four Burglars: “Once upon a time, there were four jacks [or sevens, etc.] who fell on hard times, so they decided to rob a . . .”

In this book, the four burglars rob a birthday party. 

Usually, magicians have their burglars rob a bank. 

You could have yours rob a candy store, a house, or an arcade—but never a bookstore or magic shop! 

Make the robbery your own.

As you introduce them, briefly show the four burglar cards to the audience. 

But do not reveal the three dummy cards hidden behind the burglars! 

The dummies are your secret. 

Then place all seven cards (which your audience believes to be only four) facedown on top of the rest of the deck.

Tell the audience that the deck is your bank or candy store or whatever building it is you want to rob.

Now it’s time for the robbery.

BURGLAR #1

Explain that the job of the first burglar is to go down to the basement of the building and disable the security cameras. 

Without letting anyone see the face of the card, pick up the top card from the deck and insert it near the bottom of the deck. 

In reality, you are moving one of the secret dummy cards, not a burglar card, but as far as the audience knows it is a genuine burglar. 

BURGLAR #2

The job of the second burglar is to create a disturbance in the lobby. 

(This is a good time for a fake fart noise, if you have it in you.) 

As you tell the audience about the second burglar, pick up the next card from the top of the deck and place it somewhere near the middle of the deck. 

Again, be careful not to show the face of the card because it’s just a dummy. 

BURGLAR #3

The third burglar is supposed to open the vault but instead heads upstairs to go to the bathroom. 

(“When you’ve gotta go, you’ve gotta go.”) 

Or for some other reason you invent. 

To demonstrate, place the third card near the top of the deck. 

Do you let the audience see the card as you move it? 

No, of course not. 

You’re not the dummy; the card is. 

BURGLAR #4

The final burglar is the lookout. 

He or she stays on the roof to watch for police or superheroes or angry parents or whoever the burglars are afraid of—be creative. 

As you pick up this final card, do you show it to your audience? 

Sorry, trick question. 

The answer is yes, you do. 

Because it’s one of the real burglar cards. 

(The three dummy cards have all been moved.) 

After everyone has seen the last burglar, put the card back on top of the deck. 

Now comes the fun part. 

Trouble is on the way. 

Police sirens. 

Caped crusaders. 

Whatever and whoever you like. 

BEEE-DOOOBEE-DOOO-BEEE-DOOOOOO

Uh-oh. 

The lookout sounds the alarm: Tap three times on the top of the deck of cards and make a loud wolf whistle. 

If you can’t whistle, just shout “ABRACADABRA!” or another magic word. 

This is the signal for all the burglars to come up to the roof.

Time for the big reveal. 

One by one, flip over the four cards on the top of the deck. 

Since the three dummy cards are gone, all four burglars are now on top. 

To the audience, it looks as though they’ve magically risen through the deck.

To end your story, tell your audience that the burglars escape in a helicopter. 

Or maybe they hang-glide off the roof. 

In any case, let the cards flip in the air.

You’ve outsmarted your audience. 

And the bank. 

At this point, you’ll need to pause for applause. 

Applause please

Louder

That's enough

You can close the book now.

The magic is over.

Until next time.



ABOUT THE AUTHORS

Pseudonymous Bosch is the infamously anonymous author of the New York Times bestselling Secret Series and the Bad Books.

Despite rumors to the contrary, his books are not actually written by his pet rabbit, Quiche. 

Nor is he the alter ego of Raphael Simon, a totally unrelated author who lives in Pasadena, CA, with his husband and twin daughters.

Shane Pangburn grew up in rural Illinois and now lives in Los Angeles, where he writes whenever he's not drawing, taking photos, watching TV, or otherwise working. 

He produces YALLWEST, the nation's largest Youth and Young Adult literary festival. 

His cartoons and illustrations have appeared in The Daily Dot, numerous college textbooks, and how-to guides. 

He worked as a children's bookseller and textbook illustrator before switching to literary promotion, assisting other authors on their book campaigns. 

The Unbelievable Oliver and the Sawed-in-Half Dads
Bosch, Pseudonymous

For the Phenomenal Phillip —P.B.
For my Marvelous Mom and Dependable Dad —S.P.

The Program

INTRODUCTION (The Invitation)

Chapter One: The Grand Cake Tasting
Chapter Two: Bon Voyage
Chapter Three: Magic Shopping
Chapter Four: The Rehearsal for the Rehearsal Brunch
Chapter Five: Showtime!
Chapter Six: What Did We Forget?
Chapter Seven: Define Missing
Chapter Eight: Runaways
Chapter Nine: Hostage Negotiations
Chapter Ten: Rabbit Run
Chapter Eleven: From Maze to Mansion
Chapter Twelve: Secret Passages
Chapter Thirteen: Guests and Guesses
Chapter Fourteen: Getting Ready (to Call It Off)
Chapter Fifteen: Rabbit Down the Hole
Chapter
Sixteen: Cutting the Cake
Chapter Seventeen: The Reception

M & S

AFTER-PARTY (How to Perform Oliver’s Trick) 

INTRODUCTION 

Welcome.

How wonderful to see you.

You’re here for a book. 

Am I right?

Don’t ask how I knew.

An author never reveals his secrets.

Do you want to read it now?

Very well. 

The book is yours.

Just say the magic words.

No, not please or thank you.

Not even abracadabra.

Just say . . . I do. 

Guest Book

Did you say it?

Good.

You may now kiss the book.

Oh, did I say kiss the book?

I meant read the book.

You’re not marrying it! 

Teenie and Bea
Beatriz Martina
invite you to celebrate 
the marriage of their fathers
Dad and Papa
Simon and Miguel
on Saturday May 1
The Mansion at Huntington Gardens
Dinner to follow
NO DANCING!!!

R.S.V.P.
Kindly Respond by April 1st
Name(s): Bea-Teenie
Plus one: Oliver
It was our idea!
Accepts with pleasure
Declines with regret
Please check all that apply:
Meat-Free 
Dairy-Free
Gluten-Free
Nut-Free
Sugar-Free Never!
There's no such thing as a free lunch.

The Grand Cake Tasting

“Try this one.” 

The twins, Bea and Teenie, had insisted that Oliver come with them to the cake tasting.

“He’s a cake expert,” Bea told their fathers. 

“He’ll be a big help.”

“Yeah, he really, really loves cake,” said Teenie.

So far, Oliver hadn’t been even a tiny help. 

He loved each cake equally.

Each flavor got the highest possible score. 

The twins’ fathers were beside themselves. 

Of all the wedding planning they’d had to do, the cake tasting was supposed to be the easy part. 

“Why, oh why did we bring the children into this?” Simon asked (just as he’d asked when they debated the dinner menu and the flowers and the music).

Miguel tried to make the best of the situation.

“Now, Oliver,” he said. 

“Isn’t there one cake that you prefer?”

“Nope,” Oliver said with his mouth full. 

“They’re all perfect. Thanks for taking me here, Mr. Dad and Mr. Papa.”

Oliver never knew what names to call adults. 

He just went with what Bea and Teenie called them. 

Plus Mr. to be polite.

“Simon and Miguel is fine,” Simon told Oliver, not for the first time.

“Okay, Mr. Simon and Mr. Miguel.”

“No, I meant just—oh, never mind.

”The
girls weren’t helping much either. Having given up on choosing the cake’s
flavor, they had decided to focus on design. They were leafing through a binder
full of more and more extravagant cakes. [image file=image_rsrc29C.jpg] Teenie
held up a photo of a pirate ship. It had licorice cannons, a candy-cane mast, a
marzipan sail, and a giant gummy squid attacking the deck.“That one floats,”
the baker chimed in.Jacques Fondant had been a baker to the stars for twenty
years now. He’d designed cakes for YouTubers, presidents, and reality-show
hosts. But he never let it go to his head. He still made cakes for anyone and
everyone. No cake too small or too big.The twins wanted a big cake. [image
file=image_rsrc29D.jpg] “Can this one have more floors?” Bea had started
sketching their dream dessert, which looked something like a Japanese pagoda
crossed with the Empire State Building. She taped two sheets together for
height.“You mean more stories?” asked Teenie as Bea climbed onto Teenie’s
shoulders to properly display her creation.“The word is tiers, but forget about
that,” said Miguel. “We want something simple.”“Vanilla buttercream,” Simon
added. “Two tiers.”“UGH! THEN WHAT’S THE POINT?” Bea theatrically fell from her
sister’s shoulders.“Girls,” Miguel said, “we’re glad you want to help, but this
is our wedding.”“WAIT!” Oliver nearly spat out one of three bites of cake he
was currently chewing. [image "Oliver: "You two aren't already married?""
file=image_rsrc29E.jpg] Oliver had known Simon and Miguel his whole life. Of
course they were married. They had children. They shared a house and a car.“I
know,” said Bea. “Can you believe it? In the olden days, two dads couldn’t get
married.”“It’s kind of like how they didn’t use to have cell phones,” Teenie
explained. “Now they can marry and we’re finally making it official.”“We are,”
Miguel specified. “The fathers.”“And we’d like you to be the ring bearer!” said
Teenie.Oliver had never been to a wedding and his only knowledge of ring
bearers came from The Lord of the Rings. It seemed like too much
responsibility. “I couldn’t, honestly. I can’t bear anything.”“Nonsense,” said
Simon. “You’ll do great. And the girls will be there to help.”“That’s right!”
said Bea. “We’re going to be flower girls. Or flower scientists, really.”“Well,
she’s a flower scientist,” said Teenie. “I’m a flower assassin.”Oliver was
confused. “So you kill flowers?”“Right. I pick them off one by one. And we’re
both . . .”The girls attempted a drumroll on their empty plates. (It ended up
being more of a crumb roll.) [image file=image_rsrc29F.jpg] “Magician’s
assistants,” announced Teenie.“Magician’s executive assistants,” amended
Bea.“But there’s no magician. W-wait . . .” Oliver stammered, realizing the
terrifying implications of this. “You want me . . . at your dads’ . . . ?”They
nodded, smiling.Bea and Teenie considered themselves managers of local magic
talent the Unbelievable Oliver. Their friend was in high demand after the
rousing success at their classmate Maddox’s ninth birthday party three months
before.“We’re getting dozens of requests, Oliver,” said Bea. “DOZENS!”“But we
thought it was only fair to give our dads your first—well, second—official
show!” said Teenie.Their dads looked at each other.“It’s not that we don’t want
our wedding to be magical,” said Miguel gently. “We do. It’s just—”“It’s just
that it’s our wedding,” Simon finished.“But it was our idea!” protested Bea.
“You were going to go to City Hall.”“Well, it’s our idea now,” Miguel said.
“You gave it to us.”“Exactly,” Simon agreed. “So no magic tricks. And a simple
two-tier—” [image file=image_rsrc29G.jpg] Oliver wanted to be polite, but he
too wanted a larger cake, so he just grumbled “more cake please” under his
breath. The baker, who was similarly at a loss for words, slipped him a
piece.“Fine, three tiers,” Simon said, to stop the girls’ shouting. “Vanilla
Velvet—”“Double Chocolate!”“Strawberry Bubblegum!”“Four tiers,” Simon
compromised. “Cherry Jubilee, Caramel Sunset, After-Dark Chocolate, and
Passionate Passion Fruit. But no more.”The girls made their saddest puppy dog
faces, which they had perfected by practicing in the mirror. Teenie could even
cry on command. [image file=image_rsrc29H.jpg] But the two dads had practiced
as well, challenging each other to resist all sad faces. Miguel, a
photographer, had even made flash cards. Simon, who wrote the words for
advertisements, had added dialogue: [image file=image_rsrc29J.jpg]  [image
file=image_rsrc29K.jpg]  [image file=image_rsrc29M.jpg] The brave fathers were
immune to further demands and the girls knew four tiers was the most they were
going to get.“Deal,” Bea said, holding out her hand.To make it official, Teenie
spat on her hand before extending it. “AND a magic show.”“NO! Not at the
wedding,” said Miguel.“But we worked out a whole routine,” said Bea. “It’s
incredible. You should see: the Unbelievable Oliver, the Brilliant Beatriz, and
the Marvelous Martina.”This was news to Oliver.“We’re still working on the
names,” Teenie said. She didn’t like being called Martina, even a marvelous
one.“No, absolutely not,” said Simon.“Please . . . please . . . please . . .
please . . . please . . . We’re going to keep saying it . . . please . . .
please . . .”“Well, maybe at the rehearsal brunch,” Miguel said.Bea raised a
fist in victory. “Yes!”“And at least five tiers!” added Teenie, fist-bumping
her sister.“Do you have an extra piece of carrot cake for my friend?” Oliver
asked the baker as the others made their way out.If he was going to do another
magic show, he was going to need help.Help from somebody who loved carrots
almost as much as Oliver loved cake. [image file=image_rsrc29N.jpg] 

Chapter 1
The Grand Cake Tasting

“Try this one.” 

Delicious!
Terrific!
The best one yet!

The twins, Bea and Teenie, had insisted that Oliver come with them to the cake tasting.

“He’s a cake expert,” Bea told their fathers. 

“He’ll be a big help.”

“Yeah, he really, really loves cake,” said Teenie.

So far, Oliver hadn’t been even a tiny help. 

He loved each cake equally.

Each flavor got the highest possible score. 

RATE CAKES
Flavors Dislike -> Love
Go Nuts Coconut 5
Chewy Gooey Chocolate 5
Lemon Meringue Marriage 5
Cream Cheese Pizza

RATE CAKES
Flavors Dislike -> Love
Go Nuts Coconut 2
Chewy Gooey Chocolate 5
Lemon Meringue Marriage 5
Cream Cheese Pizza 2

RATE CAKES
Flavors Dislike -> Love
Go Nuts Coconut 3
Chewy Gooey Chocolate 5
Lemon Meringue Marriage 3
Cream Cheese Pizza 2

The twins’ fathers were beside themselves. 

Of all the wedding planning they’d had to do, the cake tasting was supposed to be the easy part. 

“Why, oh why did we bring the children into this?” Simon asked (just as he’d asked when they debated the dinner menu and the flowers and the music).

Miguel tried to make the best of the situation.

“Now, Oliver,” he said. 

“Isn’t there one cake that you prefer?”

“Nope,” Oliver said with his mouth full. 

“They’re all perfect. Thanks for taking me here, Mr. Dad and Mr. Papa.”

Oliver never knew what names to call adults. 

He just went with what Bea and Teenie called them. 

Plus Mr. to be polite.

“Simon and Miguel is fine,” Simon told Oliver, not for the first time.

“Okay, Mr. Simon and Mr. Miguel.”

“No, I meant just—oh, never mind.”

The girls weren’t helping much either. 

Having given up on choosing the cake’s flavor, they had decided to focus on design. 

They were leafing through a binder full of more and more extravagant cakes. 

Cakezilla
Under the Sea Salt and Caramel
Just Frosting
Leaning Cake of Pieces

Teenie held up a photo of a pirate ship. 

It had licorice cannons, a candy-cane mast, a marzipan sail, and a giant gummy squid attacking the deck.

“That one floats,” the baker chimed in.

Jacques Fondant had been a baker to the stars for twenty years now. 

He’d designed cakes for YouTubers, presidents, and reality-show hosts. 

But he never let it go to his head. 

He still made cakes for anyone and everyone. 

No cake too small or too big.

The twins wanted a big cake. 

Daddy Papa
Fun Fetti
Teenie
Candilane
Fridacalico
Red Velvet
Dragon
Carrot
Oliver
Ice Cream

“Can this one have more floors?” 

Bea had started sketching their dream dessert, which looked something like a Japanese pagoda crossed with the Empire State Building. 

She taped two sheets together for height.

“You mean more stories?” asked Teenie as Bea climbed onto Teenie’s shoulders to properly display her creation.

“The word is tiers, but forget about that,” said Miguel. 

“We want something simple.”

“Vanilla buttercream,” Simon added. 

“Two tiers.”

“UGH! THEN WHAT’S THE POINT?” Bea theatrically fell from her sister’s shoulders.

“Girls,” Miguel said, “we’re glad you want to help, but this is our wedding.”

“WAIT!” 

Oliver nearly spat out one of three bites of cake he was currently chewing. 

"Oliver: "You two aren't already married?"

Oliver had known Simon and Miguel his whole life. 

Of course they were married. 

They had children. 

They shared a house and a car.

“I know,” said Bea. 

“Can you believe it? In the olden days, two dads couldn’t get married.”

“It’s kind of like how they didn’t use to have cell phones,” Teenie explained. 

“Now they can marry and we’re finally making it official.”

“We are,” Miguel specified. 

“The fathers.”

“And we’d like you to be the ring bearer!” said Teenie.

Oliver had never been to a wedding and his only knowledge of ring bearers came from The Lord of the Rings. 

It seemed like too much responsibility. 

“I couldn’t, honestly. I can’t bear anything.”

“Nonsense,” said Simon. 

“You’ll do great. And the girls will be there to help.”

“That’s right!” said Bea. 

“We’re going to be flower girls. Or flower scientists, really.”

“Well, she’s a flower scientist,” said Teenie. 

“I’m a flower assassin.”

Oliver was confused. 

“So you kill flowers?”

“Right. I pick them off one by one. And we’re both . . .”

The girls attempted a drumroll on their empty plates. 

(It ended up being more of a crumb roll.) 

Pa Rum Pum Crumb Crumb

“Magician’s assistants,” announced Teenie.

“Magician’s executive assistants,” amended Bea.

“But there’s no magician. W-wait . . .” Oliver stammered, realizing the terrifying implications of this. 

“You want me . . . at your dads’ . . . ?”

They nodded, smiling.

Bea and Teenie considered themselves managers of local magic talent the Unbelievable Oliver. 

Their friend was in high demand after the rousing success at their classmate Maddox’s ninth birthday party three months before.

“We’re getting dozens of requests, Oliver,” said Bea. 

“DOZENS!”

“But we thought it was only fair to give our dads your first—well, second—official show!” said Teenie.

Their dads looked at each other.

“It’s not that we don’t want our wedding to be magical,” said Miguel gently. 

“We do. It’s just—”

“It’s just that it’s our wedding,” Simon finished.

“But it was our idea!” protested Bea.

“You were going to go to City Hall.”

“Well, it’s our idea now,” Miguel said.

“You gave it to us.”

“Exactly,” Simon agreed. 

“So no magic tricks. And a simple two-tier—” 

Boooooooo!

Oliver wanted to be polite, but he too wanted a larger cake, so he just grumbled “more cake please” under his breath. 

The baker, who was similarly at a loss for words, slipped him a piece.

“Fine, three tiers,” Simon said, to stop the girls’ shouting. 

“Vanilla Velvet—”

“Double Chocolate!”

“Strawberry Bubblegum!”

“Four tiers,” Simon compromised. 

“Cherry Jubilee, Caramel Sunset, After-Dark Chocolate, and Passionate Passion Fruit. But no more.”

The girls made their saddest puppy dog faces, which they had perfected by practicing in the mirror. 

Teenie could even cry on command. 

But the two dads had practiced as well, challenging each other to resist all sad faces. 

Miguel, a photographer, had even made flash cards. 

Simon, who wrote the words for advertisements, had added dialogue: "Pretty please with agave on top." "I'll be your best friend... ...who's also your child." No. "But all the other kids have them." No. "If you don't buy it, I'll tell everyone that you dye your facial hair." No!

The brave fathers were immune to further demands and the girls knew four tiers was the most they were going to get.

“Deal,” Bea said, holding out her hand.

To make it official, Teenie spat on her hand before extending it. 

“AND a magic show.”

“NO! Not at the wedding,” said Miguel.

“But we worked out a whole routine,” said Bea. 

“It’s incredible. You should see: the Unbelievable Oliver, the Brilliant Beatriz, and the Marvelous Martina.”

This was news to Oliver.

“We’re still working on the names,” Teenie said. 

She didn’t like being called Martina, even a marvelous one.

“No, absolutely not,” said Simon.

“Please . . . please . . . please . . .  please . . . please . . . We’re going to keep saying it . . . please . . .  please . . .”

“Well, maybe at the rehearsal brunch,” Miguel said.

Bea raised a fist in victory. 

“Yes!”

“And at least five tiers!” added Teenie, fist-bumping her sister.

“Do you have an extra piece of carrot cake for my friend?” 

Oliver asked the baker as the others made their way out.

If he was going to do another magic show, he was going to need help.

Help from somebody who loved carrots almost as much as Oliver loved cake. 

Chapter 2
Bon Voyage

From the bed, Oliver could reach his desk or really any part of his room, including the ceiling if he jumped. 

His bedroom was small, but it filled all of Oliver’s needs: a rack for his jacket and top hat, a drawer for his three identical shirts and seven pairs of underwear (one for each day of the week), and another drawer for his slowly growing collection of magic supplies.

Today, his desk was crowded with printouts of various magic tricks, all well beyond his skill level.

A rabbit lounged on the bed nearby, surrounded by carrot cake crumbs. 

Contented, he made a sound that might have been a burp or a fart. 

(With a rabbit, it’s sometimes hard to tell.)

“Can’t we just do a card trick?” 

Oliver asked. 

“The Four Jokers was a big hit last time.”

“A modest hit,” the rabbit, who was named Benny, corrected him. 

“You’ve got to go bigger this time!”

He tossed off a few ideas, each more alarming than the last. 

Benny: "An escape!" 

Oliver: "I'm claustrophobic." 

Benny: "Levitation!" 

Oliver: "I'm scared of heights."

Benny: "THe sawed-in-half trick!" 

Oliver: "I can't stand the sight of blood."

“Oliver, you don’t actually saw anybody in half. That’s why they call it a trick.”

“What if I just pull you out of a hat?”

“I’m a professional, Ollie. Not just something you pull out of a hat. I’m not dandruff!”

In fact, when Oliver met Benny, the rabbit had been living in a hat. 

(The longtime magician’s rabbit had just escaped from Las Vegas and was hiding out in the hat when Oliver bought it at a local magic shop.) 

But Oliver didn’t think it would be nice to correct him.

“Besides, I won’t be there,” said Benny. 

“One wedding was enough for me! And a magician never gets top billing. It’s all about the sappy couple getting married.”

“I thought it was happy couple. What does sappy mean?”

With the barest hint of a knock, Oliver’s mother opened his bedroom door. 

Oliver shook his head, trying to cut Benny off, but once the rabbit started on weddings, he really got on a roll.

“You know, sappy. Syrupy. Corny.”

Oliver’s mother, Diane, held a load of laundry, fresh and warm from the dryer. 

She tossed it on the bed and, mercifully, over Benny.

“Help me fold these clothes, please,” she said.

“Who were you talking to just now?”

“No bunny, Mom.” 

Oliver slapped his forehead. 

“I mean, no-body.” 

As Oliver’s mother sorted laundry, a single T-shirt mysteriously crept off the edge of the bed.

“I must be hearing things,” she said. 

“I need a vacation. You want to go on a cruise, Oliver?”

“Sure.”

“Aw, who needs a cruise? I’m just glad I have a weekend off for once. Thank goodness for this wedding. Told the hospital I’m out of town. Can’t be reached. A whole weekend off, Oliver. Can you imagine?”

Oliver folded a shirt in one swift motion. 

“I can imagine.”

Before Bea and Teenie had started booking him as a magic act, Oliver had had nearly every weekend off. 

At his mother’s insistence, he’d tried T-ball, basketball, and even ballroom dancing. 

But, thankfully, he failed at most extracurricular activities. 

Strike Two!
Better, Oliver! Now try catching it with your hands.
Sorry!

Besides, his mother was almost always too busy to drop him off. 

Except for Hebrew school. 

(For some reason, she was never too busy to take him to Hebrew school.) 

So he had plenty of weekends to himself, practicing home-based hobbies, like magic and folding laundry.

He’d gotten very good at it.

Laundry, that is. 

Not magic.

OLIVER’S LAUNDRY TIPS 

1. Pinch shirt at shoulder and chest.
2. Move right hand to hem. Pinch fabric below also. Do not move left hand. 
3. Uncross your arms and lift the shirt like so . . .
4. Then lay it down to fold one more time, and VOILA! 

Benny: "Oh?! You can do that, but you can't do a simple rope trick or even tie your shoes!"

“Well, I’m off to visit the living room. I may even sit down. A whole weekend, Oliver!”

Oliver waved goodbye to his mother and wiped his sweating brow with an unfolded sock.

“Benny, that was close. Do you think she suspects that you can talk?”

“I suspect she does, kid. That woman is a lot smarter than you.”

“Well, what do we do?” Oliver asked.

The rabbit nodded thoughtfully. 

“Good question. If she finds out about me, she might make me pay rent. And between you and me, my credit isn’t too good. We better play it cool.” 

"I'll talk quietly… act like a real rabbit."

With another nearly silent knock, Oliver’s mother entered the room again, and handed him another load of laundry. 

HOP HOP @$%!

“Oliver,” she said. 

“What’s going on? I could swear I heard that rabbit swear.”

“Oh, Benny never swears.” 

Oliver slapped his forehead again. 

“Or talks. How could he swear? He can’t talk. He’s a rabbit.”

“I must be going mad,” said his mother. 

“Maybe it runs in the family. You’re talking to yourself. I’m hearing things.”

Diane picked up the rabbit off the floor and deposited him on the bed.

“Well, you and your rabbit are on your own preparing for this show. My vacation starts now. Bon voyage.”

Oliver scratched his head.

“Isn’t that what I’m supposed to say to you?” 

Chapter 3
Magic Shopping

Oliver didn’t want to go to the Great Zoocheeni’s Magic Emporium.

Not after what the Great Zoocheeni did to them at Maddox’s party, framing Oliver and the twins for Grand Theft Robot. 

It was only through clever casework and magic that they’d cleared their names, confronted the guilty parties, and found the stolen birthday present.

“You’re still mad about that?” Teenie said.

“It was months ago. Almost.”

“And besides,” Bea added, “it’s the only magic shop in town.”

“And Papa says we should support local businesses.”

Oliver couldn’t argue with the twins, their papa, AND the value of local entrepreneurship.

In the short time since his last visit, the Great Zoocheeni’s Magic Emporium had somehow grown shabbier. 

It seemed like there was an extra year’s worth of dust on the rubber chickens and Magic 8-Balls.

Once the door chimes woke him up, Oliver’s cousin Spencer greeted them with a yawn. 

“’Sup, Oliver, Beatriz, Martina. Let me know if you need any help.”

“Look—don’t our dads need those?” 

Bea nodded toward a row of dusty neckties hanging next to a few old Halloween costumes.

“Definitely! They love Halloween,” said Teenie, picking out one tie with a spider pattern and another decorated with worms. 

“These will be perfect for the wedding.” 

Clip on

“Oh, hey, what about the music?” asked Spencer.

He was going to be the DJ for the wedding, as well as the valet parker and Miguel’s photo assistant. 

At any given time, Spencer worked about seventeen jobs. 

He was trying to buy a car and also to create an app that would connect young video game players with corporate sponsors.

“Are your dads more into house or trap?”

The twins blinked.

“Norwegian death metal?”

“They really like embarrassing us,” noted Bea. 

“What music do you have that’s embarrassing?”

“Plenty. Take a look.”

Spencer showed his playlist to the girls, who began choosing tracks that played just loud enough to disguise a conversation between Oliver and his rabbit.

“Okay, Benny,” said Oliver over his shoulder. 

“What do we need to get? Oh, rings.”

He picked up a pair of large linked magician’s rings.

Benny had hidden in Oliver’s hat the whole way to the store. 

He too wanted nothing to do with Zoocheeni, but he knew Oliver would be helpless without him. 

He lifted the hat just enough to whisper in Oliver’s ear.

“Rings at a wedding? How original! Next you’ll want flowers.”

“Flowers? That’s the girls’ job,” said Oliver, not picking up on the rabbit’s sarcasm.

“Ask about the sawed-in-half trick,” suggested Benny. 

“I promise there won’t be any blood.”

“Not even fake blood?”

“What’s that, Oliver?”

Spencer asked.

“Um . . .” 

Oliver was still nervous about using sharp tools onstage, but he didn’t want Spencer to think he was talking to himself. 

“Do you have the sawed-in-half trick?”

“Yes!” exclaimed Spencer with something close to excitement. 

“I almost never have what a customer asks for, but . . .” 

With an almost dramatic flourish, he pulled an old, moth-eaten blanket off a long, black coffin-shaped box.

“It’s a pretty simple trick,” Spencer said. 

“Do I have any volunteers to slip into this coffin?”

Teenie and Bea raised their hands.

“Do we get to die first?” asked Teenie hopefully.

“Only after you’re inside. Okay, as you can see, this coffin is actually two boxes put together.” 

Spencer opened the lid of one of the boxes. 

“First, Martina, you get inside this box here and hide. That’s before the curtain rises. Nobody knows about you, okay? Can you guys keep a secret?”

“I don’t know,” said Teenie as she climbed into the box. 

“I thought my real name was a secret, but I guess it isn’t.” 

She glared meaningfully at Bea.

“Bea, you’re onstage in front of the audience,” said Spencer. 

“You get in the other box, leaving your head sticking out of this hole here. You have to bend your legs to fit.”

Bea did her best to squeeze into the other box.

Spencer turned back to Teenie.

“Martina, stick your legs out of the other end . . . See, now everyone will think it’s one coffin with one girl inside, but it’s actually Bea’s head and Martina’s feet. 

“Then when Oliver saws the coffin in half, like so . . .” 

Spencer handed Oliver an oversized plastic saw. 

“Go on, Oliver.

”Oliver poked hesitantly at the coffin. 

The saw wobbled noisily.

“Really put your back into it,” Benny whispered. 

“You’re sawing your friend in half—it shouldn’t just tickle.”

Oliver still wasn’t getting it.

So Spencer grabbed his hand and forced Oliver to slice through the two boxes in a single stroke.

“AAAAAAAH!” Bea screamed. 

“My legs. You sawed off my precious legs.” 

“I’m sorry!” Oliver was terrified. 

“I thought it was just a trick! Spencer, call 911!”

Teenie swung her box open, and everyone in the room stared at Oliver. 

Even Benny lifted the brim of the hat and looked down at him with incredulity.

“Oh, I guess the trick works.” 

Oliver laughed weakly. 

“We’ll take it.”

“Great,” Spencer said. 

“Um, how are you gonna pay?”

Bea stuck her hand out of the hole at the side of the box. 

She held a $100 bill.

“We have a one-hundred-dollar magic budget from our dads.”

At the reveal of such a large bill, the back door opened and the owner of the shop, the Great Zoocheeni himself, practically flew into the room. 

His dove, Paloma, flew in beside him. 

“A wedding, you say? All-liver, you’re doing weddings now?” 

Zoocheeni pretended he didn’t know how to pronounce Oliver’s name. 

“Of course, there’s only so much money in birthday parties. Now, a wedding. You could make a fortune. Two or even three hundred dollars.”

“Yeah,” said Oliver, although any money was a fortune to him.

“Well, that trick is purrrfect for a wedding,” purred Zoocheeni. 

“Sawing a beloved partner in half is considered very good luck. But I’m sorry, it’s not for sale. I have a sentimental attachment to . . . detaching people’s limbs.”

Bea’s head and Teenie’s legs drooped in disappointment.

“Now, we do have another one available to rent.” 

Zoocheeni pointed to a second, more dilapidated coffin, with bits of duct tape around the edges. 

This coffin, like the other, was on wheels, and it squeaked as he turned it toward the children.

“This coffin alone, for a whole weekend in peak wedding season—well, that would be five hundred dollars.”

“But our dads only gave us one hundred,” said Bea. 

“And we want to get two ties.”

Zoocheeni nodded and the dove snatched the hundred out of Bea’s hand.

Paloma flew the bill up to one of the few overhead lights in the dim store. 

She nodded as if to say “It’s real all right.”

“Well, perhaps we could do the coffin and ties for ninety-five dollars,” Zoocheeni said. 

“But the dolly will cost extra.”

“They need the dolly,” Spencer pointed out. 

“It’s part of the trick.”

He was right. 

In order for the illusion to work, the boxes sat on a specially designed cart that concealed part of each performer. 

"Bea: "How's it going in there?" Teenie: "Not great."" 

“Fine, one hundred all in,” Zoocheeni agreed without enthusiasm. 

“Now, where does this need to be delivered to?”

“Hauntington Gardens,” Bea said.

“Ah, yes, the old Hauntington estate,” said Zoocheeni. 

“A nice venue for a séance—once upon a time. Seen better days, I’m afraid. Still, for a funeral—”

“Wedding!” 

Teenie interjected.

“And it’s still nice,” said Bea.

She was excited to visit the gardens, which had all the flowers a flower scientist could ever dream of classifying in her notebook.

“Wedding, funeral—either way, it’s too far for delivery, which we don’t offer anyway,” said Zoocheeni. 

“You’re on your own.”

Zoocheeni disappeared in a puff of smoke with their $100 bill.

Spencer apologized that he couldn’t give them a ride. 

“I’m still saving up for that car.”

Unassisted, the team raced—or rather, walked, slowly and awkwardly—home with their new magic trick. 

Chapter 4
The Rehearsal for the Rehearsal Brunch

Oliver couldn’t imagine anyone living in the creepy splendor of the Hauntington mansion. 

Nearly every room was bigger than the entire apartment complex where Oliver lived with his mother and thirty other families. 

The doors were fit for giants. 

The chandeliers were the size of cars. 

The cobwebs were as long and luxuriant as the drapery. 

The twins had no trouble imagining such riches.

“I’d buy a dessert island,” Teenie said.

“You mean a desert island,” said Oliver.

“No. A dessert island. I’m thinking ice cream island.” 

“Well, I’d buy dessert for everyone in need,” Bea said.

“And a quill pen, because I’ve always wanted one.”

It was the morning of the wedding. 

Oliver, Bea, and Teenie were rehearsing for the rehearsal brunch in the mansion’s library. 

"Bea: "I was sure it would be S for Secret! But nothing's moving!"" 

A series of stern Hauntington family portraits lined the walls. 

Teenie circled the room, delighted to discover that the paintings kept staring at her wherever she stood.

“Can you see me now? . . . Can you see me now? . . . Can you see me now? . . . Look—they’re still watching me!”

Bea kept busy pulling books from the shelves “in order to read and look for secret passages.”

Benny, who’d only come grudgingly to the wedding, was rehearsing with Oliver. 

Or he was supposed to be. 

Unlike the girls, Benny was not a fan of the Hauntington mansion or its artwork. 

“Those paintings keep following me!” he complained. 

“Can’t you turn them around?”

“Don’t you like that painting?” Oliver asked. 

“She has a pet rabbit.”

“That’s not a pet rabbit!” Benny yelped. 

“That’s a rabbit stole. How would you like to be made into a fur stole?”

“But I don’t have any fur.”

“Well, better not get any ideas looking at mine!”

Upon closer inspection, the rabbit in the painting did look more like an accessory than a pet.

Obviously, Oliver and Benny could not turn the paintings around, so they compromised by turning themselves around. 

They hid behind a potted plant and practiced a new card trick.

The trick was a bit too tricky for Oliver.

“How am I supposed to do a false shuffle? I can barely do a real shuffle!”

“Don’t worry,” Bea reassured him. 

“You’ve got plenty of time. Uncle Jeff is still giving his speech, and he takes forever.”

From one of the bay windows, they could see the terrace where the twins’ uncle Jeff was telling a very long—and knowing Uncle Jeff, very inappropriate—story. 


"Uncle Jeff: "…Yup! All those years you thought you were wetting your bed?—It was actually apple juice. Sorry, Simon!"" 

“And once he gets done, we still have to introduce you,” Bea added. 

“Our introduction is really long.”

“We practiced all night,” Teenie said. 

“I’d say you have about an hour left.”

Just as Oliver started to calm down, a series of burps shook the window.

“Oh, no!” Bea exclaimed.

“What?!”

“The burps. That’s his big closer!”

"Teenie: "How are we supposed to follow that?"" 

They all leaned against the window to listen. 

Oliver wasn’t certain, but the burps sounded a little like Beethoven.

“Thank you, Jeff. That was really . . .  from the gut.” 

Miguel removed his handkerchief and wiped the microphone before handing it to his groom-to-be, Simon, who refused to touch it.

“I’ll just project,” Simon said, fiddling with his worm-patterned tie. 

“Can everyone hear me? A degree from Yale Drama School has to be good for something.”

Simon paused for laughter. 

Finding none, he continued:

“I hope everyone enjoyed their meal. Sorry about the hollandaise . . . We’ve got a special treat for you folks. Please welcome our daughters, Beatriz and Martina!”

The brunch crowd burst into applause as the girls and Oliver entered. 

As always in their family, Bea and Teenie stole the show.

“Are you ready to be impressed beyond your wildest dreams?” Bea asked in the voice of a boisterous magic promoter. 

“Please give it up for the magical stylings of the Unbelievable Oliver and his executive assistants, the Brilliant Bea and the Magical Martina!”

“It’s the Terrifying Teenie!” said Teenie. 

“And you were supposed to say my name first this time, but I don’t really care about the order.”

Everyone clapped. 

Except Oliver. 

He’d been expecting a much longer introduction. 

Chapter 5
Showtime!

Bea and Teenie beckoned Oliver to the stage, then stepped away, leaving him alone with the mic and an audience of about forty confused brunch guests.

“Thank you, Brilliant Bea and, er, Terrible Martina,” Oliver said. 

“And thank you Mr. Miguel and Mr. Simon for finally getting married.”

Oliver gulped.

He forgot how he was going to start.

“C’mon, you’re a magician,” Benny whispered in his ear. 

“Keep up the patter. Ask for a volunteer if you’re stuck.” 

“I need a magician,” declared Oliver, flustered. 

“Do I have a magician in the audience? Er, a volunteer. A magician’s volunteer!”

Oliver looked out at the tables. 

The wedding guests were beginning to talk among themselves. 

His mother sat near the front. 

She emptied her glass and raised her hand for another.

“Oh, don’t look at me,” Oliver’s mother said.

“I’m not volunteering for anything. I’m on vacation.”

“Call up Dad,” said Teenie in a loud whisper.

“Oh, right.” Oliver pointed at Simon, who had not raised his hand. 

“We have a volunteer! Mr. Dad, er, Simon. Please make your way to the stage.”

The crowd clapped as Simon made his way onto the terrace.

“Now, Mr.  Simon, we don’t know each other, do we?” asked Oliver.

“You come to our house every day after school,” said Simon.

“True,” said Oliver. 

“But we don’t know what each other is thinking.”

Simon looked at him askance. 

“What are you thinking?”

“Even though we’ve only just met, I can read your mind,” Oliver said.

“My assistant will hand you a book. Open it to any page and write down the first word you see.”

Bea handed her father an encyclopedia volume. 

He flipped through the pages, then wrote down a word on the sticky note attached to the dust jacket.

“I couldn’t see.” 

Oliver turned to the crowd. 

“Did he write a word? Good. Now, Mr. Simon, crumple the note so I still can’t see it, and place it in your back pocket. Then hand the book back to me.”

Simon hid the note, then handed the book to Oliver, who immediately flipped through the pages, rather obviously checking the jacket of the book.

“Bea!” Oliver called in a panic. 

She tiptoed over so they could talk without the audience hearing. 

“Bea, this isn’t the right book. This is K. You were supposed to give him J.”

“Oh, J was boring,” Bea said. 

“The sequel’s much better.” 

Oliver hit his head with the “sequel.” 

He’d hidden a piece of carbon paper in the first book, so that when Simon wrote down his word, it would appear on another piece of paper, also hidden in the book. 

Now Oliver had no idea what word Simon had chosen.

“Okay, I noticed you were looking near the front of the book? Right?”

Oliver flipped through the book, hoping that a word would catch his eye.

He considered his odds. 

What was the most commonly used word?

“Was it, um, the? Is the your word?”

Simon was confused. 

His actual word was karma.

He glanced over at his daughters, who both looked meaningfully at him. 

“Yes,” Simon said. 

“My word was the. How’d you know?”

Oliver beamed. 

He’d done it—real magic!

“A magician never reveals his secrets!” 

To keep up the momentum, he rushed right into his big trick. 

“And now for the grand finale. Teenie? Bea?”

The girls rushed Simon off the terrace and into the library. 

From the other side of the wall Simon could be heard saying, “You want me to get in that? Wearing these shoes?”

“I’ll need one more volunteer.” 

Oliver scanned the crowd. 

A few hands went up. 

But he pointed to the other groom, Miguel, who had his camera pointed at Oliver. 
(Miguel had chosen to save money by photographing his own wedding.)

“Mr. Miguel!”

Miguel shook his head. 

He didn’t want to volunteer. 

But the crowd clapped and cheered until Miguel reluctantly handed his camera to Spencer and joined Oliver on the terrace stage.

Spencer shot enough photos to blind everyone with the flash.

“Hello,” said Oliver. 

“What’s your name, sir?”

“Now, Oliver—”

“That’s my name too!”

As the crowd laughed, Oliver gained confidence. 

Perhaps too much confidence. 

“Well, Mr. Oliver, what brings you to Hauntington Gardens today?”

“It’s Mr. Miguel. I mean, it’s Miguel. Just Miguel. I’m getting married. This is our rehearsal brunch.”

“Oh, a wedding and a brunch!” 

Oliver improvised. 

“A day when two become one. And a meal where two meals become one. Breakfast and lunch . . . But for my next trick, one will become two.”

He waved his wand, the signal for the twins to reappear with the coffin and dolly. 

But they were having technical difficulties.

“Dad, we need you to be quiet and not make a scene,” Teenie told Simon. 

“Like how we’re supposed to act at nice restaurants.”

As they rolled the coffin onto the terrace, a sharp-eared audience member might have heard some unexpected sounds coming from inside it. 

With everyone in place, Oliver turned to Miguel. 

“Please, sir, step into the coffin.”

“Do I have to?” asked Miguel, looking at his watch. 

“Simon and I have to do our portraits soon. Where is he, by the way?”

“I promise it’s perfectly safe,” said Oliver, avoiding Miguel’s question. 

“Nothing to fear but the worms. And spiders,” he added, indicating Miguel’s spider-patterned tie.

He lifted the lid and helped Miguel inside. 

Now both grooms were tucked into the Sawed in Half. 

Bea reached in and pulled Simon’s feet out of the far side to match Miguel’s head and arms, which were sticking out the front.

“Teenie, the saw, please.”

“Ow!” Teenie pretended to hurt her finger on the plastic saw. 

The audience gasped.

Grinning, she showed everyone that her finger was fine, and handed the saw to Oliver.

“Thank you, Terrifying Teenie—that really was terrifying. And now, I’m sorry to say, we must saw your father in half.”

With the saw in hand, Oliver made a show of trying to cut through the center of the coffin. 

He quickly turned to the two assistants.

“On second thought, you guys should do this. He’s your father.”

Enjoying it more than they should have, the girls took turns sawing through the coffin. 

"Father: "I knew you two would send me to an early grave!"" 

He played his part well, screaming just enough to make the gag work.

“Well done,” said Oliver after the saw had gone all the way through. 

“Let’s just make sure the bones are fully separated . . .”

The three kids started to separate the two halves of the coffin. 

“Oh no, there’s too much blood!” said Oliver, stopping them. 

“Towels, please.”

The girls placed towels over the “cut” ends of each half of the coffin, so it would seem they were hiding the bloody parts. 

Then they pushed the two coffin halves away from each other and turned them toward the audience.

“And voila!” Oliver said. 

“Mr. Papa is sawed in half!”

Miguel tilted his head so he could see Simon’s feet sticking out of the other box. 

“Why are my feet still wiggling?” he asked. 

“And why am I wearing Simon’s socks?”

The audience clapped. 

Oliver reflexively bowed and moved to leave the stage.

“Kid, you gotta put him back together,” Benny whispered. 

“Don’t want people to worry.”

“Oops!” said Oliver aloud.

The audience thought it was all part of the act, and laughed along as Oliver turned and moved the two halves of the coffin back together. 

He tapped the coffin twice with his wand, then opened the front lid.

Miguel emerged to universal applause.

The twins hastily pushed Simon’s feet back inside, lest the illusion be spoiled.

“Thank you, thank you!” Oliver said as he accepted a flower thrown to the stage.

“Hey, those are for decoration!” Miguel shouted. 

(In addition to photographing the wedding, he was also the florist.) 

“But bravo, Oliver, Bea, and Teenie! Let’s hear it for the Unbelievable Oliver and his Uncanny Assistants.”

That went pretty well, all things considered, Oliver thought as they wheeled the coffin back into the library. 

Chapter 6
What Did We Forget?

Worn out from the performance, the twins and Oliver relaxed in the library. 

Bea sat on the coffin, looking at her notebook, but not writing anything. 

Teenie jumped up and down on an ottoman, causing clouds of dust to form. 

Oliver practiced palming a coin—almost successfully. 

Benny napped on the sofa beside him.

“I feel like I forgot something, but I don’t know what it is,” said Bea, drumming her fingers on the coffin.

“Me too,” said Teenie.

“Oh, I know! We didn’t use our new names! The Busy Bea and the Thrilling Teenie.”

“No. It was something else, and those aren’t our names. What did we forget? I can’t put my finger on it.”

“Then it must not have been important,” said Oliver. 

“Don’t worry about it.”

Bea looked at him in amazement. 

“Did you just say ‘Don’t worry about it’? Wow. I don’t think I’ve ever seen you not nervous before.”

“Sawing people in half really agrees with you, Oliver,” Teenie said.

“Really? You think so?” 

Nervous at the thought of being un-nervous, Oliver dropped his coin to the floor. 

“Now that you mention it, I feel like we forgot something, too.”

Miguel entered with hands full of flowers and cameras. 

His neck craned, he talked on the phone.

“What do you mean it’s too big to fit through the door? We ordered a sensible, five-tiered cake—Zesty Orange, Ritzy Raspberry, Strawberry Angel Food, Very Vanilla, and I-forget-what Chocolate, topped with Butterscotch Buttercream and Galaxy Ganache. Now it’s ten tiers?  With carrot cake?!”

The twins looked at each other. 

“I thought it was supposed to be Choco-latte Ganache,” whispered Bea.

Teenie shook her head. 

“No. Lucky Lemon. I’m sure of it.”

“What? No, there is no wedding planner,” Miguel shouted into his phone. 

“Well, you’re talking with one of them. I don’t know where the other one went.

“ Kids, have you seen your dad, um, Mr. Simon?” Miguel asked. 

“He was supposed to check on the cake when it arrived.”

“We’ll check on the cake for you, Mr. Miguel.” 

Oliver jumped up, glad to have a job now that relaxing was no longer relaxing. 

“You just, um, take it easy and handle the flowers. And the photos. And the guests.”

The kids found the baker in the kitchen, wiping his brow with one of the many tea towels he carried in the band of his apron.

“Oh, hello, children!” Jacques said. 

“Did you see the beautiful cake? A caterer just helped me get it into the fridge . . .”

Jacques showed them the walk-in refrigerator. 

Inside was a multitiered, multicolored cake so tall and unwieldy that it was placed on wheels.

This was the biggest, most glorious dessert any of the children had ever seen.

“The top five tiers are on the house,” said the baker proudly. 

“I decided you were such a sweet family, you deserved the biggest and sweetest of cakes.” 

“You are a true artist, sir,” said Oliver.

The cake was so well constructed that Oliver felt an overwhelming desire to shake the man’s hand.

Their hands met with a poof of flour and powdered sugar.

“I’ll be returning to help serve the cake later,” said the baker. 

“When you see Simon, please tell him.”

The kids looked at one another. 

Simon—that’s what they’d forgotten! 

They’d forgotten to let him out of the sawed-in-half trick.

“Daddy’s stuck in the coffin!” Bea whispered, horrified.

The three of them dashed back to the library.

“Daddy?” Teenie knocked on the lid of the coffin. 

“We’re so, so sorry. I promise never to leave you in a coffin again.”

“Me too,” said Bea. 

“Well, at least until you die, I guess?”

Oliver lifted the lid. 

The coffin was empty. 

Chapter 7
Define Missing

Oliver gulped. 

He’d never lost a parent before. 

He’d lost many homework assignments.

And before improving his laundry skills, he’d lost several socks. 

But never a parent. 

Or any person at all.

“Do you think he’s missing missing?” Oliver asked.

“Or just missing?”

“Define missing,” Teenie said. 

“He’s probably just run off.”

Bea nodded. 

“He gets restless. Parents these days don’t have nearly the freedom they used to.”

“He’s fine without supervision,” Teenie agreed.

“Usually.”

“As long as he doesn’t park in a big parking lot,” said Bea.

“He loses his car a lot,” Teenie explained.

“But it’s not like he loses himself,” Bea specified.

Benny had hopped over from the sofa as soon as the coffin was revealed to be empty. 

“Psst.” 

He nudged Oliver, who picked him up in the top hat.

“Maybe their dad got wise,” whispered the rabbit. 

“Better to leave early than to get left at the altar. Believe me.”

“You mean you think he left left?”

Oliver whispered back, scandalized. 

“But he wouldn’t . . . would he?”

“Anyway,” said Bea, too distracted to notice that her friend was conferring with a rabbit, “Dad always has his phone.”

“Actually, we have his phone, remember?”

Teenie held up their father’s phone.

“Oh, right,” said Bea. 

“The gift for Daddy and Papa.”

Oliver was confused. 

“Your having his phone is a gift for them?”

“Yes, the gift of time away from technology,” said Teenie. 

“To make the day special.”

She put the phone down on a table.

“Also, we’re making a wedding video,” said Bea. 

“That’s our real present.”

“That’s right,” said Teenie. 

“And Oliver, we need your help.”

Normally, Miguel shot all the family videos. 

But considering he was already doing the flowers and the still photography, the girls had volunteered—as long as they got to use Simon’s phone. 

(They swore they wouldn’t open any apps until after the wedding ceremony.)

Oliver had been the victim of several of Bea and Teenie’s previous videos.

"Oliver: "What's in this cake? It's very minty." Bea: "Toothpaste frosting!" Bea: "We pranked you!"" 

He hoped this video would be less hazardous. 

In fact, he hoped he wouldn’t be involved in it at all.

“Maybe I should go look for Mr. Simon instead,” said Oliver.

Simon’s phone buzzed on the table.

“I think your dad has a text.” 

Oliver waited for the girls to pick it up. 

“It might be important.”

“Our dad never does anything important,” said Teenie. 

“He’s a writer.”

Teenie handed Oliver a stick with a single ear bud taped to it. 

“Here’s your boom pole. You’re running sound.”

“Teenie is the cinematographer,” Bea explained. 

“I’m doing the on-camera interviews.”

She pulled out her notebook. 

“Oliver, do you have anything to say to the groom and groom?”

Teenie turned the phone to face Oliver. 

Apparently, they were starting right away. 

"Oliver: "Um…Congrats."" 

“See, that wasn’t so hard.” 

Bea made a checkmark in her notebook. 

“Now we just have to interview a hundred fifty more guests.”

“I don’t know what you’re congratulating them for,” Benny whispered into Oliver’s ear. 

“There isn’t going to be a wedding if the groom doesn’t show.”

“Let’s start with family members,” said Bea.

This made sense, as only family members were around at the moment.

Surrounded by crates, Uncle Jeff was moving bottles behind the bar.

He shook his head as soon as he heard the word interview.

“I had a job interview once. 

Let’s just say it didn’t go well. 

Besides, there’s something I want you to help me out with.

”All the crates looked too heavy for the kids to lift, and the contents didn’t look safe for kids.

“Oh, not the bar. I just need you to pull my finger real quick.”

The twins were far too smart for such a trick, but Oliver reached out his hand and pulled Uncle Jeff’s finger.

The fart sound wouldn’t have been so loud if Oliver hadn’t had the microphone extended as well.

“You kids catch that on video?” Uncle Jeff laughed. 

“Hey, tell your dads the bar’s all set up. If they need anything, I’ll be right here.”

They found Simon’s sister on the back steps of the mansion, leaning against a snarling stone lion.

Aunt Margie was a favorite of the twins. 

She always brought them souvenirs from her travels, or “mystical journeys,” as she called them. 

And she was always careful to tell the girls which items had the most magic powers.

“Hello, Bea and Teenie! Have you seen your dad?” she asked.

“No,” said Bea quickly. 

“Can we interview you for our video?”

“Of course! I was just working on the wedding ceremony.”

She held up a notebook and a quill pen, just like the one Bea wanted. 

Bea made a mental note to ask her aunt for a pen as a gift for the Winter Solstice, which is how Aunt Margie celebrated Christmas.

Ordained in seven faiths, she was the obvious choice to officiate her brother’s wedding.

“Now, the first thing to know about Simon is that he’s a restless soul . . .”

Aunt Margie launched into a long discussion of their father’s character, starting with his star sign (Libra) and favorite animal (llama). 

“He never sticks with anything for long. He once promised to travel with me around the world for a year, but didn’t last a week. So fickle! I’m surprised he’s stayed with Miguel all this time. And now they’re getting married? He’ll run off at the first—”

She noticed her nieces’ expressions. 

“Of course, he’s probably changed. I’m sure I missed something in his star chart.”

Teenie’s hands were getting tired from holding the camera. 

Oliver’s arm had fallen asleep from lifting the boom.

Bea did her best to get her aunt to wrap it up. 

“That’s nice, Aunt Margie. In five words or less, what would you like to wish the happy couple?” 

"Peace. Love. Energy. Patience. Passion. And persistence. Oh, that's six. Well, forget persistence. Not Simon's strong suit anyway." 

With that their aunt put her hands together and bowed for the camera.

As they started off in search of their next interview subject, Miguel approached. 

He held what looked like a fence dotted with donuts. 

Teenie trained the phone camera on him.

“If you see Dad, remind him that he was in charge of the donut wall,” said Miguel, waving the camera away. 

“It was his idea. I don’t even eat donuts!”

“We do!” 

They each stole a donut as he walked by. 

Even Benny stuck a paw out of the top hat and snatched one.

Luckily, the wall blocked Miguel’s view of their thievery.

As she nibbled on her donut (plain glazed), Bea wrote down what Miguel had said. 
So far, most of her notes were things Simon was supposed to do that he wasn’t doing.

“Dad really is dropping the ball,” she said.

“He’s not dropping the ball, he’s dropping the wedding,” Benny (maple bar) told Oliver (strawberry cruller).

Oliver was about to shush Benny when he heard a buzzing sound.

“I think your dad’s phone is buzzing,” he said.

“Uh-huh.” Teenie nodded. 

She made no move to look at it, or even touch it.

She was still eating her donut (chocolate sprinkles).

“What if it’s him?” suggested Oliver. 

“What if he really is missing?”

“I think I liked you better when you were in your not-nervous phase,” said Bea. 

“You should try being not nervous again.”

The phone kept buzzing. 

Oliver kept trying not to be nervous about it.

“Oh, fine,” said Teenie. 

“We can look at the phone. Just to make you happy.”

She took the phone out of her pocket and glanced at the screen. 

Her glance turned into a stare.

“Dad’s going to Mexico!” 

"Notification: Check in now for your flight to Mexico City." 

“Mexico?!” Benny exclaimed in alarm. 

Oliver could feel the rabbit’s feet scrambling around on his head, and then the hat being lifted. 

“I knew it!”

“What?” asked Oliver.

“Weddings—they’re all alike!” said the rabbit, jumping to the ground. 

“I should never have come!”

Before Oliver could ask Benny what he was talking about, he’d hopped out of sight. 

Chapter 8
Runaways

In a rush, the twins declared two things:

First, their father was not allowed to go to Mexico without them.

“It’s not fair,” said Teenie. 

“He knows we’ve always wanted to go!”

“He can go to Canada,” said Bea. 

“Maybe.”

Second, Oliver was not allowed to run after his runaway rabbit—not when they had a runaway father to contend with.

“Rabbits are cute, but you have to admit they’re easier to replace,” said Bea. 

“I mean, you can’t get a new dad at a pet store.”

“That’s right,” said her sister. 

“We need your help catching Dad before he disappears forever!”

Luckily, they knew somebody who was an expert at catching fugitives.

Grandpa Bruce was a retired police officer. 

They found him pacing around the grand entry hall, where a pile of gifts had already started to grow.

“Amazing the way folks leave their presents out in the open like that,” he grumbled. 

“Think you can trust people just because they’re invited guests?  

Half of this junk will be gone in an hour! 

Now what’s this video you’re making?

I hope it’s for the insurance claim.

”His granddaughters told him about the wedding video, and asked if they could interview him.“

Let me give you some advice about interviews,” Grandpa Bruce said. 

“Don’t ever let your subject know what you know or don’t know. And don’t ask permission. Just start asking questions.”

“Okay,” said Bea. 

“Say someone ran away, how would you catch them?”

“Heh. This is my kind of wedding video. Nothing lovey-dovey. Straight to the important stuff. Well, the sad truth is, you often don’t catch them unless they want to be caught.”

The kids looked at one another. 

This was not encouraging.

“Did our dad run away before?” asked Teenie. 

“I mean, ever. Like when he was a kid.”

“Not that I recall. We were always much more worried about him being kidnapped, really. Always with his head in the clouds, your dad. And so gullible.”

“Kidnapped?” the kids repeated in unison.

Grandpa Bruce nodded.

“Your grandmother, god rest her soul, kept a drawer full of money, just in case we needed to pay a ransom. Those bills wound up coming in handy, let me tell you, when it was time to pay for college.”

After the interview, the kids pondered what Grandpa Bruce had said. 

Could Simon have been kidnapped? 

They hadn’t even considered the possibility until now.

“Kidnappers usually leave a note,” said Bea, tapping her nose with her pen.

“Yeah, they make those cool collages out of magazines,” said Teenie. 

The kids saw plenty of notes around the gift table. 

There was even a bird cage filled with greeting cards. 

The twins looked through the cards, gingerly avoiding the bird, who looked ill-tempered.

Oliver checked the guest book. 

“Oh, that’s nice,” said Oliver. 

“There’s a poet in the family.”

“You got a funny idea of nice,” Benny said.

Benny’s right, thought Oliver. 

“It’s a ransom poem!”

The twins were not impressed.

“There’s no such thing as a ransom poem, Oliver,” said Teenie confidently. 

She held up an envelope. 

“Isn’t this cool? It has our names on it! Not just our dads’, or For the Family.”

“Well, aren’t you going to open it?” asked Oliver.

“No, you don’t open presents until after the wedding ceremony,” said Bea. 

“And before the cake. Everyone knows that, Oliver.”

With this key point of etiquette established, there was no more to be learned at the gift table. 

They decided to go back to the scene of the crime.

The library was just the way they’d left it. 

Nothing seemed amiss.

They spun the coffin in all directions. 

If anything, it was in better shape than before. 

The wheels spun more smoothly and hardly made any noise. 

Maybe it was lighter without their fathers inside.

“Seems fine to me,” Teenie said, standing on the coffin. 

“Somebody give me a push.” 

Teenie was starting to pick up speed when the dolly hit something at the edge of the landing. 

The coffin tipped over and she slid off.

“Aaack! What was that?!” said Teenie, stumbling to her feet.

It was just a pair of shoes. 

Their dad’s shoes. 

She pushed them aside.

“Well, nothing’s different around here. No signs of foul play.”

“I figured dad-napping was a stretch.” 

Bea wrote a note in her notebook. 

“He must have run away to Mexico after all.”

“What about his shoes?” 

Oliver gestured to Simon’s shoes, now lying upside down.

“What about them? He took them off to get in the coffin, remember?”

“Yeah, but wouldn’t he put them back on?”

“I’m sure they sell shoes in Mexico, Oliver. But I see your point,” Bea admitted.

The three investigators were silent for a moment.

“Parents are always making you put your shoes on when you go outside,” said Teenie finally. 

“Why? I never understood it.”

Simon’s phone buzzed again. 

This time Teenie looked at it immediately. 

“Oh no!”

“What?!”

“I don’t think Dad went to Mexico after all.”

Their investigation had taken a terrible turn. 

Message: The item is safe n sound in cold storage. I'll be back later. Have money ready.

The text could not have been clearer, regardless of what the letters looked like.

Even Teenie had to agree.

Their father had been kidnapped, and the kidnapper would be returning later to collect the ransom money.

“Shouldn’t they have said how much the ransom was?” said Bea. 

“They must not be very experienced kidnappers.”

“What does it matter? We don’t have any money anyway,” Teenie pointed out.

“True,” reflected Bea. 

“Maybe we could offer something in trade.”

“Like what?” asked Oliver, who was getting more and more distressed.

The twins looked at him, considering. 

He gulped. 

Chapter 9
Hostage Negotiations

If there was anyone who could help with a financial negotiation it was Miguel’s parents, who were partners in a small law firm in Tucson.

Of course, the kids didn’t want to raise the alarm about the dad-napping; they would have to be sneaky in their line of questioning. 

“Lita and Lito, will you be in our video?” 

Bea asked her grandparents.

Miguel encouraged his children to use Spanish when referring to his parents. 

So the twins called their grandmother and grandfather Abuelita and Abuelito, affectionately shortened to Lita and Lito.

Both were working hard, preparing for the ceremony. 

Their grandfather was in charge of assembling the wedding canopy, which looked as though it was about to fall down. 

Lita, meanwhile, was placing paper flowers around the stage.

The twins’ grandmother had constructed more than a hundred flowers in all shapes and sizes. 

Some were as big as Bea and Teenie. 

They were beautiful and must have taken days to make. 

“Oh, are you filming already?” their grandmother asked, addressing the camera. 

“Miguel and Simon, we love you both so much. I just wish you’d told me you were also using real flowers before I made so many paper ones.”

“And it wouldn’t hurt to have instructions for this chuppah you ordered from Sweden!” said their grandfather jovially.

Lita nudged Lito. 

“Say something nice.”

“Yes, yes, we couldn’t be happier to have Simon as our son-in-law. And, hey, if it doesn’t work out, we can always handle the divorce! Congratulations, guys!”

“I have a question that I think my dads would want to know the answer to,” said Teenie. 

“Do you have any experience with kidnappings?”

“Or hostage negotiations of any kind?” added Bea.

Their grandfather laughed. 

“Why, are you planning on being kidnapped?”

“Not exactly,” said Bea. 

“We’re just trying to prepare them for all the different things that could happen to a married couple.”

Miguel’s parents admitted they had little experience with kidnappers. 

But they had one piece of advice: Learn all you can about them.

“Find out what they’re really after,” said their grandfather. 

“You don’t want to pay a ransom if they’re not going to give you back your loved one anyway.”

“And remember, you always have two lawyers to lean on,” said their grandmother.

The twins thanked their grandparents for a lovely interview.

After a whispered consultation, they decided they should check the front entrance of the gardens. 

If they knew who’d entered and exited the property, they might have a better idea as to the identity of the kidnapper.

Spencer, wearing a valet uniform, was standing in the circular driveway. 

He was more than happy to be interviewed for their video, seeing as he wasn’t doing anything except waiting for guests to arrive. 

"Valet: "Don't forget to tag me!"" 

“What about people leaving?” asked Teenie. 

“Have you seen any runaway grooms?”

Spencer laughed. 

“Why? Are your dads getting cold feet?”

“Why did you say that?” asked Bea sharply. 

“Did you see a pair of feet?”

“No. It’s just an expression.”

“And what about suspicious-looking objects?” pressed Teenie. 

“Something human-size maybe, like a mummy? Or anything with arms and legs sticking out?”

“No, nothing like that,” said Spencer. 

“Nobody has come or gone for an hour. Not since the baker left and the caterers arrived.”

“Really? Nobody at all?” 

The kids looked at one another in surprise. 

“Is there another way out?”

“Nope. This place is like a walled fortress.” 

Spencer eyed the phone in Teenie’s hand. 

“I like this video you’re making. It’s kind of Simon and Miguel’s Wedding: American Crime Story.”

“Excuse me, can you tell us where to find the corpse flower?”

A pair of tourists were walking up, cameras and guidebooks in hand.

“Sorry, the gardens are closed for a special event,” said Spencer. 

“But I’m sure—”

Before Spencer could finish, a tall, frowning man in dirty gardener’s overalls and a fraying straw hat stepped in front of the tourists.

“The corpse flower does not like visitors,” he said in such an unfriendly voice that the tourists backed away without another word.

The grim-faced gardener nodded curtly, then disappeared as silently as he’d come.

Bea pulled the video crew away from Spencer.

“Nobody has left the premises,” she said, tapping her notebook. 

“That means Dad didn’t run away AND the kidnapper didn’t take him away.”

“So then he’s here,” said Oliver.

“Which is good news, right?”

Teenie nodded. 

“I mean, so what if he’s a prisoner? What could happen to him at good old Hauntington Gardens?”

They all turned to take in the view. 

From where they stood in the shadow of the old stone mansion, they could see the cobwebby conservatory in which the famously foul-smelling corpse flower bloomed. 

It was not a reassuring sight.

The gardener was standing in front of the conservatory and appeared to be communicating with the flower inside.

“I wonder why they call them corpse flowers,” said Teenie. 

“I thought it was because they smell like corpses,” said Oliver.

“Yeah, but why do they smell like that?” asked Teenie darkly.

As they watched, the gardener strode off in the direction of the giant hedge maze that bordered the gardens like a topiary fortress.

“He’s going into the maze—like that monster in the Greek myth.”

The twins had recently read the myth of the Minotaur, the bull-headed monster that haunted the labyrinth in ancient Crete.

“He’s scarier than a Minotaur,” exclaimed Bea. 

“He’s the Garden-o-taur!”

“Wait, what if somebody else is in there?” said Teenie.

“Like Dad?”

Teenie nodded. 

If Simon was lost, which seemed more than likely, knowing him, the hedge maze was the logical place to look for him. 

After all, it was designed to get lost in.

A cloud passed in front of the sun, casting dark shadows over the gardens and causing the kids to shiver.

“Okay, Teenie, you better go in to look for him,” said Bea grimly.

“But I just did a maze this morning!”

“That maze was on paper. It doesn’t count.”

“It’s okay,” said Oliver bravely. 

“I’ll go.”

“You will?” 

The twins stared at him in surprise.

“I have to. The Garden-o-taur is chasing Benny!”

Oliver pointed to the small white animal running into the hedge maze with the very large gardener chasing after him.

“I hope he doesn’t feed Benny to the corpse flower!” said Teenie. 

“We’ll come too!” 

Chapter 10
Rabbit Run

Benny couldn’t believe his luck. 

The vegetable patch at Hauntington Gardens was laid out like a buffet, with each dish carefully labeled and presented. 

“Better than brunch at the Sands,” Benny said to himself, fondly remembering the buffets at his favorite Las Vegas casino. 

However, just like in Vegas, Benny’s luck ran out. 

The Hauntington Gardens’ gardener had caught him chewing on some parsnip, and had chased him into the hedge maze. 

Benny was still a few feet ahead of his pursuer, but he was lost. 

If he didn’t find his way out of the maze soon, he’d be swept up in the gardener’s net. 

Worse yet, a rat blocked his way. Benny hated rats. 

They always got other, more respectable rodents into trouble.

“Outta my way, rat,” Benny said.

“What are you running from, mate?” the rat asked. 

“Bunch of pesky kids back that way.”

“I’m running from the gardener.”

“Oh, he’s harmless, unless you’re a topiary,” the rat said. 

“It’s the chef you’ve got to worry about. She’ll dice you to bits and feed you to the guests. And you’re headed right for her kitchen. Trust me, nobody knows this maze better than me.”

Benny didn’t trust rats, but he didn’t trust chefs either. 

He asked which way to go. 

"Rat: It's simple. Just left, right, left at the hedge, another left at the shrub, a right at the bush, past the topiary, then just crawl under the scrub." 


Benny soon discovered he’d been right not to trust the rat. 

Sure, the rat led him out of the maze—straight into the most terrifying area.

The wedding.

Guests were everywhere now, along with servers passing appetizers from the dreaded kitchen. 

One wrong step and he’d be turned into a canapé.

To make matters worse, the gardener was approaching with his net.


Sitting at the bar was the one person Benny could trust at this wedding other than Oliver: Diane, Oliver’s mother.

Benny jumped into Diane’s lap just as the gardener swung for him with his net.

“Ma’am, watch out for that rabbit!”

“Don’t be silly, this is my rabbit,” said Diane. 

“Well, my son’s rabbit.”

“Sorry, we don’t allow animals off leash at the Hauntington,” said the gardener. 

“Not even rabbits.”

“He’s a service rabbit.” 

Diane stroked Benny’s head. 

“Surely you make exceptions for service rabbits. Doctor’s orders. I’m a registered nurse. Here, we have all the paperwork somewhere.”

Diane opened her purse and pulled out a stethoscope, some tissues, and various snacks.

“No, that’s fine, ma’am,” said the gardener kindly. 

“We just can’t have him in the gardens. If you like, we have a petting zoo for rabbits, goats, and geese.”

Benny yelped in horror.

“No, but thank you,” said Diane as the gardener walked away, shaking his head in puzzlement.

Oliver’s mother wagged her finger at Benny. 

“You know not to go running away like that.” 

"Benny: "Sorry, Diane."" 

She stared at the rabbit, then noticed Uncle Jeff standing behind the bar.

“Oh, phew. You’re still here. For a second I thought I heard the rabbit talking!”

Uncle Jeff smiled and placed a crudité platter in front of her. 

“Hungry?”

“No, but I’m sure he is.” 

Diane swung Benny onto the bar. 

He immediately started nibbling. 

Even though he was beyond full, a little bit of celery couldn’t hurt.

“Man, am I tired!” 

Diane yawned as Uncle Jeff started rinsing glasses. 

“I haven’t slept in days. Oh, the life of an ER nurse.”

His mouth full of broccoli and carrots, Benny tried his best to make polite conversation. 

“Sounds like show business. Long hours, late nights. You don’t choose the life, it chooses you.”

“Cheers to that,” Diane said.

She clinked glasses with a confused Uncle Jeff, who was drying a wet glass with a rag. 

He shrugged and ducked below the bar.

“I wanted a quiet life,” Benny continued. 

“A little burrow in the country. Twenty . . . thirty kids max. But Daisy had to have a big wedding. So we go to Vegas. What happens? She runs off with some high-rolling hare and leaves me at the altar!”

“That’s such a sad story, Jeff,” said Diane, still thinking it was the bartender talking. 

“But honestly, twenty kids is too many for anybody.” 

“Sure is,” said Jeff, standing again. 

As far as he was concerned, one kid was too many.

Benny finished the last of the carrots and crawled into Oliver’s mother’s lap. 

Maybe she’d have more snacks. 

Moms often carried snacks. 

Chapter 11
From Maze to Mansion

Teenie led the way through the hedge maze, holding her father’s phone in front of her, so as to check around corners and avoid dead ends. 

If they were going to die in the maze, she wanted to have a little warning first.

“Daddy? Are you there?” 

Teenie called out.

Bea followed behind, at a safe-ish distance. 

“Daddy, if you hear us, send up a flare!”

Oliver was last. 

“Benny? Can you hear me?”

“Here, Benny, Benny, Benny!” called Teenie.

“Shh!” said Oliver. 

“He hates that!”

Turning and turning, going deeper and deeper into the maze, they didn’t find any lost fathers or lost rabbits.

Instead, they got lost.

Sadly, characters in books don’t have an all-seeing, bird’s-eye view of their surroundings. 

Happily, we authors and readers do. 

We can’t get lost. 

"Great! Now how do we get out?" 

“I wish we had a ladder to see over that hedge,” said Oliver.

Without warning, Teenie jumped on Bea’s shoulders. 

She couldn’t see the exit.But she could see something else. 

“It’s the Garden-o-taur! Run!” 

"Oliver: "Wait up!"" 

Teenie grabbed handfuls of petals to toss behind them as they ran.

“Don’t worry, Oliver,” Teenie shouted. 

“I’m a trained flower assassin, just follow the petals!”

Oliver followed the trail and got stuck in the same dead ends as Teenie and Bea. 

With each wrong turn, he could hear the gardener getting closer.

SNIP. SNIP. SNIP.

Finally, Bea couldn’t take it any longer. 

“That’s it! I’m breaking out!” 

The trail of flower petals ended in a girl-shaped hole in the hedge.

Oliver slipped through the hole and found himself sliding down a slimy staircase that ended underneath the mansion.

“Aaack!” 

He crashed through an open door and landed in a heap at the bottom of the stairs, which would have been even more painful had not the twins been there to break his fall.

It was almost too dark to see, with the only light coming from the door they’d entered, but at least they were together again. 

"Teenie: "well, glad we're safe."" 

“Do you think this is the dungeon?” Bea said. 

“A mansion this size must have at least one dungeon.”

“What else could it be?” Teenie said.

Bea didn’t see any wall shackles or other standard dungeon décor. 

But there were a great many barrels. 

She’d read enough horror stories to know that any one of them could be housing their father.

She tapped on a barrel. 

“Maybe they’re hiding Dad in here.” 

Something scampered out of the top, but it wasn’t their father.

“What was that?!” asked Oliver.

Teenie used her father’s phone to light the room. 

There was a single well-fed raccoon in the corner, shielding its eyes.

“Oh, don’t worry,” said Teenie. 

“It’s just a raccoon.”

“AAAHHH!” 

Bea and Oliver were both properly scared of raccoons.

The raccoon looked at them disdainfully, then wandered away.

“Where’s the light switch?” said Oliver.

He felt around on the wall but found only holes. 

"Oliver: "Find anything?" Bea: "Just spiders!"" 

“Maybe there’s a string or something you pull?” suggested Bea.

“I don’t want to check the ceiling,” said Oliver. 

“What if there are bats up there?”

Teenie flashed the phone’s light overhead. 

“See, almost no bats!”

But there were many cobwebs and a single rope. 

When they pulled it, a trapdoor opened, and a ladder dropped to the floor with a clang. 

Chapter 12
Secret Passages

The ladder led back into the library.

“I knew there was a secret passage!” 

Bea shouted before remembering that she was in a library. 

“I just didn’t check enough books to find the secret lever,” she added in an appropriate whisper.

A book stuck out from the shelf. 

It was the slim Y volume of the encyclopedia. 

(Bea had previously stopped at X.) 

She pushed the book back into place, and the trapdoor in the floor slammed shut.

The library grew quiet, even for a library.

“Do you hear that?” Teenie whispered. 

“Someone’s talking on the other side of this shelf. There must be a secret room!”

“Another one?” said Bea skeptically.

“The other one was a secret staircase. The room part wasn’t secret.”

As the twins argued, Oliver noticed something wrong with the eyes of a painting, the painting with the rabbit fur stole.

What was wrong was that the eyes were gone. 

Oliver gulped. 

“Maybe that’s why it looked like the eyes were watching us before! Someone really was watching us!”

Teenie and Bea had been to enough museums with their fathers to know that you never touch the art. 

So, even though the portrait was suspicious, they didn’t want to touch it. 

Oliver’s mother had no time to take him to museums. 

He pushed on the frame without hesitation. 


Or none beyond his usual fear of the unknown.

As the painting turned on a hinge, a voice rang out from the other side:

“Simon, do you promise to be kind to Miguel even when you’re hungry and your blood sugar is low?”

The voice was addressing their missing father. 

They’d solved the case in record time.

Smiling, the kids pushed through the painting and entered a new, even creepier room.

The walls were lined with animal heads, including one jackalope that looked very much like Benny would look if you stuck a pair of stag’s horns on him. 

Oliver was glad Benny wasn’t there to see it. 

A second door opened into a large marble bathroom. 

In front of the mirror stood their aunt Margie. 

Pushing up her colorful reading glasses, she read from her notebook.

“And do you, Miguel, promise to stand by Simon even when the line for a theme park ride is three hours long?” 

“Aunt Margie,” Teenie said. 

“Where are you hiding Dad?”

“I’m not hiding him. Is he hidden?”

“But you were just talking to him.”

“Oh, no,” she said. 

“I’m just practicing for the ceremony.”

She showed Bea her notebook, in which she’d written her script for the wedding. 

The notebook was gilded leather and quite elegant. 

Bea decided to ask for a matching notebook for Winter Solstice to go with the quill pen.

“How’d you find this room?” Teenie asked.

“Oh, it’s in this brochure,” their aunt Margie said. 

“Everyone should follow their own path, but they should also check a map.”

Sure enough, when they looked at the brochure, they saw a map of the mansion. 

Each secret spot was marked with a spyglass.

All three kids agreed that exploring the mansion’s secrets was the absolute best use of their time. 

Behind the Hall of Portraits was a Hall of Secrets: secret passages and stairways that maids and butlers had used to navigate the mansion.

“Someone could have stolen Dad and dragged him anywhere!” said Bea as she climbed a spiral stairway to the seventh master bedroom.

Popping out of false walls and wardrobes, they investigated nearly every one of the house’s forty rooms before finally arriving on the fourth-floor balcony.

Teenie brushed aside a “DO NOT TOUCH!” sign on a knight in once-shining armor.

“Just to see if it’s heavy,” said Teenie, grimacing at the weight. 

“It’s not!”

As she lifted the armored arm, a ladder dropped to the ground. 

She’d found yet another hidden trapdoor. 

It was a lot of fun, yes, but after visiting every secret passage, closet, and hiding place, they hadn’t found any grooms. 

Or even any ghosts.Worse yet, from the circular window in the mansion’s highest tower, they could see that most of the guests had already arrived.

Miguel, meanwhile, was perched on a ladder, hanging lights from a tree. 

They waved, but he couldn’t see them.

The wedding was getting closer, and they were no closer to finding Simon. 

Chapter 13
Guests and Guesses

When they joined the crowd gathering for the wedding, Oliver was surprised to find Benny curled up in his mother’s lap. 

He never lets me hug him like that, Oliver thought.

Oliver wasn’t so sure he wanted to hug Benny, but it would have been nice to have the option.

“I found Benny!” Oliver’s mother said, nuzzling the rabbit. 

“The gardener was chasing you because you’re a bad bunny, aren’t you?  Yes, you are.”

She tickled Benny, who erupted in giggles. 

“Stop!” he begged.

“Okay, okay!” Diane said. 

Then she looked at her son in alarm. 

“Oliver, did Benny just say Stop?”

“No, that was me,” Oliver said. 

“He doesn’t like to be tickled or hugged or even held. He does like carrots, though.”

“Well, you know him better than I do. Here, take him back.” 

Diane handed over the disappointed rabbit.

By mutual agreement, Benny didn’t stay in Oliver’s arms; he went right back to his perch atop Oliver’s head.

“Can we ask you a few questions?” 

Bea asked Oliver’s mother, pulling out her notebook.

“For our wedding video,” Teenie specified. 

"You were just talking to the gardener? Was he acting suspicious? Did he say anything about dad? Does he have a history of kidnapping or parent-napping?" 

“As a parent, I wish I could take more naps!” said Diane. 

“Are you sure you don’t want to hear about the time I first met your fathers?”

“We’re sure,” said Teenie. 

She turned off the camera. 

“Okay, that’s a wrap.”

The kids regrouped under the still-less-than-sturdy-but-nonetheless-stylish chuppah.

“Bea, we need a better game plan,” said Teenie. 

“That was fine for Oliver’s mom, but we can’t let anyone know Dad is missing. We could cause a panic. Or even tip off the gardener or the parent-napper!”

Teenie thought for a moment. 

“We should ask something more subtle, like . . . ‘Tell us about the first time you ever saw our dad. Now tell us about the last time you saw him.’”

“We also need a motive,” Bea pointed out.

“‘Why’d you steal our dad?’”

“How about, ‘Tell us your fondest memory of our dad and your deepest grudge.’”

The twins tried these questions on every arriving guest. 

Nearly everyone said something suspicious. 

Many of their fathers’ friends went all the way back to college and they had some very specific axes to grind. 

"Simon is so thoughtful and charming. Unless he's your roommate." 

"DO you know he still owes me twenty bucks?" 

"Simon, I hope this two-man marriage goes better than those one-man shows you did in grad school."

Then there was the entire third-grade class.

The rule at Nowonder Elementary was that if an invitation went out to one student in a class, it went out to every student in the class.  

As soon as Bea and Teenie invited Oliver, the wedding became a class field trip to Hauntington Gardens.

“Maybe it was Maddox and his goons again,” said Bea, watching their classmate sneak a second or possibly third donut. 

After all, the only crime they’d ever investigated before had been committed by Maddox and his three friends.

“Right!” exclaimed Teenie. 

“They started with petty theft and now they’re on to parent-napping!”

Teenie swung the camera around to find the class bullies, Maddox, Memphis, Joe, and Jayden, pulling at their dress clothes.

“Is there anything you want to say to Simon and Miguel?” Bea asked. 
“Our dads. This is their wedding.”

“This is a wedding?  Gross.” 

Memphis seemed truly surprised. 

“I’ve been to four of my mom’s and dad’s weddings. They’re all boring.”

“What kind of phone is that?” Jayden asked.

“Does it do 4K video?”

Joe nodded to a llama piñata that was sitting under a tree. 

“When can I start hitting that piñata?”

“You have to wait for them to put it up,” said Teenie from behind the camera.

“Oh, yeah?” said Joe, slugging his own hand with his fist. 

“Why?”

“Say, were we supposed to bring a gift or is our presence a present?” 

Maddox asked, smirking.

Bea, Teenie, and Oliver didn’t trust these jokers, but they had to move on. 

They still had seventy suspects left to interview.

The rest of their class was a complete bust. 

"You're so lucky you get to go to your parents' wedding. I didn't even get to go to my parents' divorce!" 

"How many donuts can we take off the donut wall?" 

Their friend Rose couldn’t talk even for a second. 

She’d seen Miguel working feverishly to hang the string lights over the dance floor and was now holding his ladder.

“Thank you, Rose. At least someone’s helping.” 

Miguel climbed down to see his daughters and Oliver making the wedding video, but nowhere near ready for the wedding. 
“Girls!” he shouted, dropping string lights to the ground. 

“Have you seen your dad? Not only did he leave me to set up this entire wedding, he missed our couple’s portrait session! Why get married if you’re not going to take pictures?”

“You could always take pictures without him,” 

Teenie suggested.

“I tried. But I kept feeling like there was something missing. “Anyway, you’ve got to get ready!” 

Miguel said to his daughters. 

“The wedding is in . . .”

Rose checked her digital-pet watch, which she used even though the tiny computer gave her an allergic rash. 
“Fifteen minutes, Mr. Miguel.”

“What’s the point of getting ready?” 

Bea asked as they headed back to the mansion. 

“We haven’t found Dad.”

“Maybe Dad is just getting ready somewhere else,” Teenie said hopefully.

“But we’ve looked everywhere!”

“What about the kitchen?” 

Benny whispered in Oliver’s ear. 

“The chef in there, I hear she chops up animals for stew.”

Oliver looked at the line of caterers exiting the kitchen with trays of hard-to-identify meats. 

He shuddered as a caterer offered him chopped liver. 

The girls grabbed chicken fingers.

“You’re looking all over, but what if he’s all over?” 

Benny speculated morbidly. 

“What if they’re serving Simon everywhere?”

Oliver grabbed the appetizers out of his friends’ hands.

“No time to eat! We’ve got to get ready.” 

Chapter 14
Getting Ready (to Call It Off)

The video crew reconvened in the family suite, where their outfits were hanging on a rack. 

The twins’ dresses matched the lining of Simon’s suit, which was a nice detail but made little sense, as no one would see the lining except them.

Teenie really didn’t want to wear a dress, but she’d agreed to it as long as the dress had a sash for her flower sword. 

A flower assassin needs a flower sword. 

It wasn’t sharp, but it would knock the petals off a flower if she swung hard enough.

“WAIT!” Bea pointed to her father’s suit hanging from the top of a tall closet door. 

“Dad’s suit. What if there’s another clue inside it?” 

The suit was too high up for any one of them to reach. 

But Teenie insisted it would be possible if the others climbed on her shoulders. 

Oliver thought this was a terrifying idea, but he agreed to take the highest position because he was the smallest and lightest.

Lifted to more than twice his height, Oliver could see dust on the shelves and cobwebs on the ceiling, but no kidnapping-related clues. 

He grabbed Simon’s jacket and handed the pants down to the girls.

“Check to see if he’s got any cash in there,” Benny suggested.

“I’m not stealing!”

“Of course not,” said the wise rabbit. 

“It’s just . . . ransom money.”

Oliver swung the jacket around, checking the interior pockets and sleeves for ransom money.

He had his arms all the way through the jacket when he heard Miguel exclaim:

“Oh, there you are!”

Teenie jumped in surprise. 

Oliver was certain they were about to fall, but she steadied herself, and they all hid behind Simon’s suit.

“Well, Simon?” Miguel continued. 

“Where have you been and where did you get that ridiculous top hat? Bad enough the girls are making us wear Halloween ties.”

“Oh no,” Oliver whispered to Benny. 

“He thinks we’re Simon! If he finds out Simon is really gone, they’ll call off the wedding.”

“I’ve got an idea,” Benny whispered back.

The rabbit cleared his throat. 

“We’re not supposed to see each other before the wedding!” he declared loudly. 

“It’s bad luck.” 
He sounded exactly like Simon! 

Oliver was astonished, until he remembered that Benny had done impressions on the Vegas stage.

“I thought we weren’t bothering with that, but if you insist . . .” 

Miguel turned around, so he was no longer facing Simon’s suit. 

“What are you doing up here, Simon?”

“I’m just, um, writing my vows.”

“Ugh! We vowed no vows!” 

Miguel threw his hands up. 

“Now that’s one more thing I’ve got to do! The wedding’s in ten minutes, Simon. And we still need to take pictures. You really know how to create a scene, don’t you?”

Miguel stormed off, stomping loudly down the stairs.

Once the coast was clear, the twins helped Oliver to the ground. 

Well, Bea wobbled, and everyone fell. 

“I didn’t know you could do impressions!” 

Bea exclaimed.

“Yeah, that was way better than your magic,” Teenie said. 

“No offense.”

Oliver looked at Benny, who’d crushed his tail during the fall. 

The rabbit cursed and hopped with his hat toward the exit.

“For a second, I thought it was your rabbit talking,” said Bea.

“HA!” said Oliver, a little too loud. 

“Benny talking. That’s funny.”

He picked up the rabbit and pretended to pet him as he closed his hand over the rabbit’s mouth.

Oliver felt the nip of two very large, sharp incisors. 

“Ow!”

Free again, Benny jumped from Oliver’s hands onto a shelf that held two flower bouquets and two baskets of petals. 

The flowers looked delicious.

“Benny!” Bea shouted. 

“Don’t eat their flowers!”

Oliver tried to grab Benny, but just as his hand reached the rabbit’s fur, Benny, the flowers, and the entire shelf disappeared. 

An ancient pulley system was revealed in the open wall.

“Another trapdoor!” Teenie exclaimed. 

“That’s a dumbwaiter,” Bea explained.

“Don’t say dumb. It’s rude.”

“No, that’s its name. Old houses have them. It probably goes to the kitchen. I bet that’s where Benny winds up.”

“Oh, good,” said Teenie. 

“He’ll be safe, then.”

Oliver ran from the room before the twins could say another word.

“Don’t forget the flowers!” they shouted after him.

As Teenie swung the sash and sword around her waist, something was knocked out of her pocket. 

It was the envelope with their names scrawled across it.

“If we can’t find Dad, there won’t be a wedding,” said Bea, picking up the envelope. 

“We might as well open this now.”

Since there was only one envelope to open, the twins naturally had to open it together. 

“One . . . two . . .  three!”

The envelope ripped apart along with a puff of smoke.

Inside was a single page with a collaged request.

“It’s got the cool letters!” exclaimed Teenie.

“Just like I wanted!” 

“Yep, it’s a real ransom note,” said Bea, reading carefully. 

“How are we going to get three or even two hundred dollars? What are we—millionaires?” 

Chapter 15
Rabbit down the hole

Having spent so many years in show business, Benny had seen worse elevators than this dumbwaiter. 

Still, he was worried. 

As a rule, he avoided kitchens.

And the Hauntington kitchen was, according to the rat, notorious.

Benny hid in the basket of petals. 

If someone saw him, he’d be camouflaged—as an Easter Bunny. 

He gagged at the thought. 

Easter Bunny?! 

Never get him started on the Easter Bunny.

It wasn’t long before the dumbwaiter landed with a thud and Benny could see into the bustling kitchen.

In the center of the room stood the chef, a tough-looking woman in stiff chef’s whites, holding a cleaver high above her head.

Uh-oh.

The cleaver slammed down on the counter. 

Then Benny saw it: the largest bowl of salad he’d ever encountered. 

It had everything: carrots, cherry tomatoes, water chestnuts, broccoli, cauliflower, bok choy. 

He was in heaven. 

Or fifteen feet away. 

He just had to get across the kitchen without being noticed.

“AAAAHHH!” a caterer screamed. 

“There’s a rat in the dumbwaiter.”

Benny thought about correcting him.

In his line of work, the worst thing you could be called was a rat. 

However, explaining would likely make it worse.

He hopped over to the salad. 

If he was going down as a rat, he’d eat like a rat first.

The catering staff was so scared of this giant, elevator-riding rat that they all ran away. 

But not the chef.

And she was fully capable of making rabbit stew all by herself.

The chef pointed her cleaver at Benny. 

“Don’t even try it.”

Just as the chef was about to pounce on the rabbit, Oliver threw himself between them and pulled Benny away from the salad bowl.

And Benny didn’t get a single bite of bok choy. 
Worse yet, he had to suffer another hug.

“Everyone gets so emotional at weddings,” Benny complained.

Oliver was just glad to have his bunny back.

The chef put down the cleaver and clapped her hands to get Oliver’s attention.

“You! What are you doing in my kitchen? And why are you hugging that rat?”

“Aaack! A rat?” 

Oliver jumped back and scanned the room.

“Psst, she’s talking about me, dummy,” Benny whispered.

“Oh, you mean Benny,” Oliver said, relieved. 

“My bunny.”

“Well, he scared my crew half to death,” the chef said.

“Now I’ve got to go collect those big babies. Don’t touch anything! Especially not the cake. I know how you kids love cake.”

As the chef walked out, Oliver could see the massive cake, in all its frosted glory, sitting in the open fridge.

“I guess nobody will notice if I take one bite . . .”

Oliver walked as if in a trance, not stopping until his nose was almost touching the multitiered, multiflavored mountain of his dreams. 

He decided he would take a sliver—just the tiniest morsel—from the bottom, where no one would ever look.

Cupping his hand, he attempted to scoop a handful of cake. 

He hoped the layer would be chocolate.

But it wasn’t chocolate—or any other flavor. 

Under the frosting, the cake was rock solid.

It was a fake cake.

Why bake a fake cake? 

Did someone make a mistake?

He stepped back and examined the cake with a critical eye. 

“Benny, how many tiers was this cake supposed to have?”

“I don’t know,” grumbled the rabbit. 

“But if you don’t hurry up, I’m going to start shedding tears of boredom.”

Oliver wiped away a circle of frosting where he’d tried to get his piece. 

Underneath was a shiny black surface. 

He knocked on it. 

It sounded hollow. 

He knocked again. 

This time something very strange happened.

The cake knocked back.

Oliver’s eyes lit up.

“Benny, I figured it out!”

He had cracked the case. 

Now all he had to do was crack the cake. 

Chapter 16
Cutting the Cake

The chef didn’t believe that there was a man inside.

“A lot of people try to get me to give them a taste,” she said, grinning. 

“But it’s the first time I’ve heard that one.”

“Please don’t take the cake away,” Oliver begged. 

“I swear there’s a man trapped inside it.”

“Sorry, we have to get it out to the floor. The baker said to let the cake chill for two hours, then take it out for viewing. That goes for anybody inside the cake too.”

“Please don’t take the cake away!” 

Oliver shouted as they took the cake away. 

“It’s one of the grooms!” 

“Oliver, calm down,” Benny said. 

“Have a cookie to tide you over. You’ll get cake later.”

“I can’t calm down,” Oliver said. 

“Simon is inside the cake! I heard him!”

“Oh, why didn’t you say so? That explains everything!” said the rabbit, who had seen plenty of Vegas performers jump out of cakes. 

“Seems a little funny for a wedding, but to each his own. So when is he jumping out? When’s the big reveal?”

“A reveal! Great idea, Benny! We’ll make it another magic show.”

Oliver found Bea and Teenie on the stage steps, comforting Miguel.

Behind them, rows of seats had been set up in two sections with an aisle down the middle. 

Guests stood around, talking awkwardly, pretending not to notice that one of the grooms was crying. 

“Your father—you can’t rely on him for anything!”

Miguel said, sobbing. 

“I just saw him a moment ago in his suit, and now his suit is back on its hanger and he’s gone! Is he really leaving me alone at the altar?”

“Don’t worry, we have good news, Papa! Daddy didn’t leave you . . . Or not on purpose,” Bea qualified.

“He never does anything on purpose,” their papa blubbered.

“He was kid—dad-napped,” said Teenie.

“That’s your good news?” asked Miguel, mid–sniffle.

“Well,” said Bea, “it is if you pay the ransom.”

“Ransom?! Did he put you up to this?”

Bea shook her head. 

“What if we told you that Dad could reappear for two or possibly three hundred dollars?”

They were about to show Miguel the ransom note when Oliver arrived with a counteroffer.

“I can make Mr. Simon reappear for free,” said Oliver breathlessly, wand in the air. 

“With magic!”

Bea and Teenie left their father’s side to confer with Oliver.

“Oliver, Papa is really upset about Dad,” Bea said, not quite out of her father’s earshot. 

“I don’t think magic is going to cheer him up.”

“He has to pay all that money,” said Teenie. 

“Or else get used to being a single parent.”

“Not that being a single parent is bad,” said Bea. 

“Your mom seems really good at it.”

“And you seem pretty good with Benny,” said Teenie.

“No, you don’t understand,” Oliver said. 

“We just have to cut the cake and everything will be okay!”

“Um, Oliver, we know you like cake, and we do too, but it doesn’t solve everything,” said Bea.

“Plus, even if it makes you feel better for a little while, you crash from all that sugar,” said Teenie, clearly speaking from experience.

“No, just listen to me for a sec . . .” 

In a rushed whisper, Oliver explained what he’d discovered.

The twins’ eyes grew wide. 

“And the baker seemed so nice! I guess you can never tell!”

Smiling, they gathered everyone around the cake, which now sat near the bar. 

"Bea: "Come one, come all! See the encore performance of The Unbelievable Oliver, The Brilliant Bea—" Teenie: "And the Tremendous Teenie!" Oliver: "Is that girl ever going to settle on a name?""

Oliver shushed his rabbit before stepping in front of the very large crowd.

“Ladies and gentlemen, friends and rabbits,” said Oliver in his best magician voice. 

“As you see, this is a somewhat non-traditional wedding . . . because we’re serving the dessert first. It’s time to cut the cake!”

Getting a few reluctant laughs, Oliver shifted the mood and held up the saw.

“Brilliant Bea and Tremendous Teenie, will you divide the cake in half? Or however you think is fair.”

The twins gripped the handles of the saw. 

They moved it back and forth across the surface of the cake, until they found a spot they could agree on. 

Then they went to work. 

Now that the cake was cut in half, all the layers were revealed.

“May I have a few volunteers to taste the flavors?” Oliver asked.

He volunteered to go first. 

"Vanilla buttercream! Orange blosson honey! I don't know. Raspberry?"

"This doesn't have dairy, does it? Gross! Dark Chocolate! Blue Velvet? I've had better." 

"Pound cake! Still processing. Piña colada? My compliments to the chef."

“Hmm, that’s funny,” said Oliver as the others finished tasting. 

“Something is wrong with the last layer.”

He wiped away some frosting, and tapped his wand on the solid bottom section of the cake. 

“Mom, can you help?”

“I told you, Oliver, I’m on vacation.”

“But this will be a piece of cake!” 

Audience members laughed nervously. 

What was this boy doing? 

“Do you have your stethoscope?”

Diane looked confused, but she took out her stethoscope from her bag. 

Even on vacation, she was prepared for medical emergencies.

“I guess you can’t hurt yourself too much with this,” she said, handing it to her son.

Oliver placed the stethoscope’s bell on the hard wooden surface of the coffin. 

It was just as he’d suspected.

“Phew,” he said to himself. 

There was a lot riding on this last trick—including a marriage and a family and his reputation as a magician.

He handed the stethoscope back to his mother, who listened as well.

“This cake . . . This cake has a heartbeat!” his mother cried in astonishment.

Shifting into nurse mode, she pushed half the cake away. 

“We have to get this patient to surgery stat!”

Teenie was lucky to catch an armful of cake, along with a faceful of icing. 

Resisting the urge to take some of the cake for himself, Oliver finally opened the lid of the coffin.

Simon sat up, blinking under the multicolored wedding lights. 

He looked dazed, but relatively unharmed. 

Aside from the worm-patterned necktie tied around his mouth.

It was a big reveal indeed. 

The audience burst into applause. 

Simon’s daughters stared at him in amazement.

“Dad—there you are!” 

Teenie hugged her father.

“We thought you hated the magic show!” said Bea. 

“Who knew you were the grand finale!”

Oliver’s mother shook her head. 

“I must say you’re a good sport letting my son bury you inside a cake like that,” she said to Simon. 

“I would never put up with it myself.”

Still gagged, Simon made a muffled sound of protest.

“Sorry, I can’t understand you with that silly tie in your mouth,” said Diane, leaving the stage. 

“Who wears a worm tie? And on their wedding!”

Miguel ran over. 

“Oh, so now you decide to come out of hiding? No, don’t say anything! You can apologize later. If we get married right this second, there will still be enough light outside to take pictures before dinner!”

As Miguel wheeled his husband-to-be toward the aisle, everyone stood and clapped even louder. 

What a way to begin a wedding!

Even Maddox seemed impressed. 

“That’s the only way I’m ever getting married!”

“A standing ovation!” Benny marveled. 

“Kid, this cake trick is a keeper!”

Oliver grinned and grabbed a celebratory handful of cake.

The processional music began right on time: “This Must Be the Place” by the Talking Heads.

Bea and Teenie looked at each other in a panic. 

“Flowers!” 

They’d been so involved with their detective work, they’d forgotten their most important jobs, flower scientist and flower assassin.

“Where are we going to find flowers now?” asked Bea.

Benny held up his paw.Oliver suddenly remembered his job as well. 

“What about the rings?!” Oliver grinned. 

“I knew those would come in handy.”

“Oh, no, Papa is pulling the gag off Daddy’s mouth,” moaned Teenie when they joined their fathers under the canopy.

“What’s wrong with that?” asked Bea.

“It means they’re going to kiss!”

“Oh, no—let’s not look!”

Chapter 17
The Reception

The ceremony could not have gone better, at least in this family it could not have gone better. 

Oliver accidentally locked the magic rings together, but at the twins’ suggestion, their fathers exchanged neckties instead, which everyone agreed was much more romantic. 

Sadly, in the chaos, no flowers were assassinated or scientifically studied; they were merely enjoyed.

Then, at last, came the family photos. 

Using a timer and a tripod to square his shots, Miguel hurried back into frame for each picture. 

It made for some funny faces, but the late-afternoon light was fantastic.

“Don’t worry, there’s no need to apologize for missing the original portrait time,” Miguel said to his new husband. 

“We can talk about it later.”

“Why should I apologize?” asked Simon. 

“There was no way I could make it.”

“It’s crazy the lengths people go to avoid having their picture taken,” Miguel muttered.

“For now just say ‘SORRY’ for the camera,” he shouted through his teeth. 

“Say ‘SORRY,’ everybody!” 

"Just a second! Look at the camera. Don't anybody bink!" 

From photos, they went straight into dinner. 

Half the crowd had spoiled their appetites on cake, so dinner went fast.

Speeches came next.

After their grandparents, it was the twins’ turn.

“And now the reason we’re all here today,” Simon said. 

“They were the first to propose this marriage. Please welcome our daughters—”

“Dad, you don’t know our new names.” 

Bea handed her father a note.

“‘The Brilliant Beatriz and the Tremendous Teenie,’” Simon read.

The crowd burst into applause. 

Once again, Bea and Teenie stole the show.

“Thank you, thank you!” they both said. 

"Daddy…Papa! We love you both—so much."

"To us, you're the best parents in the world. To each other, you'll make the best husbands in the world."

"We hope you never get sawed apart!"

“This wedding really was a great idea, wasn’t it?” the twins concluded. 

“Glad we thought of it. Cheers to the grooms, Daddy and Papa.”

As glasses clinked in the air, dinner concluded. 

It was the traditional time for cake, or it would have been in a more traditional wedding.

Knowing this, Jacques Fondant arrived. 

For a work of art this size, he thought it best to cut the cake himself.

Instead, he found Simon’s father, sidled up to the bar.

“Excuse me,” he said. 

“I’m the baker, and I’m looking for the wedding planner.”

“Sorry, I don’t know from wedding planners,” said Grandpa Bruce. 

“I’m the crime buster is what I am. And you’re coming with me, buddy.”

Having served forty years on the force, he had no problem guiding the large baker to the sweetheart table, where Simon and Miguel sat in front of their guests. 

“There you are!” 

Miguel pointed his finger at the baker. 

“Why’d you bake my husband into a cake?”

Jacques Fondant was confused.

He’d baked a giant cake for both the grooms. 

He’d added a lot of buttercream and love, but he didn’t bake anyone into it.

“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” Jacques said. 

“I just came back to help you cut the cake.”

He looked around. 

“But I see you already cut it. Did you release the dove?”

“What dove?” said Miguel. 

“We asked for a simple five-tiered cake, and instead you gave us ten tiers. One of which was my husband.”

The baker was still confused. 

“But I only made nine tiers. Lavender Vanilla. Original Orange. Raspberry Rampage. Blueberry Velvet. Cherry Lollipop. Burnt Caramel. Extra-Dark Chocolate. Raw Cookie Dough. Oh, and Coconut Countdown. Ten tiers—who could eat that much?“

See—” 

The baker pointed at the decimated cake. 

It was clear that the top nine tiers were just as described. 

“But what is this tier at the bottom?” 

He swiped the bottom tier with his finger and tasted the frosting.

“Cool Whip!” he exclaimed in horror. 

“On a Jacques Fondant cake?! When I handed this cake to the wedding planner, there was no bottom tier. No husband. And most definitely no Cool Whip.”

“But we didn’t even have a wedding planner!” protested Miguel.

“Yes, we did it all on our own,” Simon said. 

“Well, Miguel did. I was stuck in the bottom of your cake. Somebody hit me over the head and shoved me inside.” 

Oliver looked at the bottom tier of the cake, wondering who put Simon inside it.

The last tier was a wooden dolly, barely disguising the sawed-in-half coffin. 

It was only an illusion: a trick.

Suddenly, Oliver had a thought.

“Wait,” Oliver said. 

“You said something about a dove. Was it the wedding planner’s? Did he also have a mustache and a monocle?”

“Yes,” said the baker. 

“And very full of himself he was too.”

Suddenly, it all made sense. 

The identical boxes, the ransom poem, the stolen groom, it was all the Great— Wooden boards clattered and paper flowers flew as the wedding canopy collapsed under the weight of a single, well-fed dove.

Oliver pointed his wand at the frightened Zoocheeni. 

“Stop that magician!”

The wedding attendees looked from one magician to the other. 

They hadn’t known there were two magicians at the wedding. 

One seemed more than enough.

With a poof of smoke, Zoocheeni and Paloma raced toward the exit. 

But they weren’t fast enough to avoid Simon’s father, who tripped Zoocheeni with his cane and applied handcuffs to both the bird and the magician in one well-practiced motion. 

“There’s no such thing as a retired cop.” 

Simon’s father sighed. 

“Kids, if you’ll excuse me, I’ve got to take this fella downtown.”

“Sorry you’ve got to go, Pop!”

“Yeah, Dad, don’t go!”

Simon and his sister Margie both made less than convincing attempts to stop their father from leaving. 

Spencer had already brought the car to the valet station, siren blaring. 

He wasn’t about to pass up another chance to drive the police cruiser.

Grinning, he opened the door for Grandpa Bruce and the unhappy prisoners.

“Of course, it was Zoocheeni,” said Bea as the police car disappeared through the Hauntington gates. 

“We should have thought of him immediately. He must have left the ransom poem and the ransom greeting card. But then who left the ransom text on your phone?”

“What ransom text?” asked Simon.

“The one that said you were in cold storage.”

“I think it was the baker,” volunteered Oliver. 

“He was talking about the cake.”

“I wasn’t asking you! But I admit that might make sense.”

“What about Mexico?” said Teenie. 

“We thought you were going without us. We were so mad!” 

“Oh! I almost forgot about Mexico,” said their dad. 

“Where’s the piñata I ordered?”

His daughters looked at him skeptically. 

A piñata was not the same thing as going to Mexico.

The piñata was still lying under the tree.

“Wait, does anyone have a stick to hit it with?” Simon asked, pulling the rope to lift the paper llama off the ground.

Miguel grabbed one of the posts that had held up the wedding canopy and handed it to his new husband.

The twins took the first turns attacking the spinning piñata, neither bothering to wear a blindfold.

“It better have the good candy,” Teenie said.

“Yeah, don’t try to get Smarties with us,” said Bea.

“What’s wrong with Smarties?” asked Oliver, taking the stick from them, and missing the piñata completely.

“Let’s just hope there aren’t any more fathers hidden inside,” said Miguel.

One after another, their classmates took turns whacking the piñata.

Then Miguel, who still had a lot of pent-up energy but no more patience, grabbed the stick. 

With a final swing from Miguel, the piñata split open.

The kids rushed forward.

For nothing. 

There wasn’t any candy at all.

Instead, a lone envelope dropped to the ground. 

"To: My Family, Love Simon" 

“Where’s the candy, Dad?” Bea asked accusingly.

“Just open it,” Simon said.

Teenie leaned in as Bea opened the envelope.

Inside were tickets for an all-inclusive family vacation to Mexico.

The brochure promised rest, relaxation, and fun for the kids.

“I may not have planned the best wedding,” Simon said. 

“But we’ll have the best family-moon ever.”

Miguel hugged his husband. 

Guests clinked their glasses and cheered.

As the crowd quieted, the music that Spencer had left playing seemed to grow louder.

“Well, that was exciting,” said Miguel, breaking away from Simon. 

“Care to dance?”

Miguel and Simon had taken classes for a few weeks leading up to the wedding. 

In all the confusion, they’d almost forgotten the steps, but neither gave a single glance at their feet. 

Benny tried to hide his eyes. 

First with his sunglasses. 

Then with his paws. 

Finally, he could hide it no longer. 

Benny was crying like a baby bunny. 

“It’s just all so beautiful,” said the rabbit. 

“I love a wedding.”

This was a surprise to Oliver, who’d heard Benny complain endlessly about weddings.

However, it was a bigger surprise to Bea and Teenie. 

“You can talk!” Bea shouted.

“Of course he can!” Teenie said. 

“It makes so much sense that Oliver has a rabbit talking in his ear.”

“It explains everything,” agreed Bea. 

“There was no way he could learn all that magic on his own.”

“Nobody can know,” Oliver told them, his voice tense.

“Sure, okay,” said Teenie. 

“We need to preserve your mystique. Nobody’s going to hire you if they know you’re not really a brilliant magician.”

“Although it’s a little selfish, taking all the credit,” said Bea.

“No, you don’t understand,” said Oliver. 

“It’s because he’s on the lam. That’s why nobody can know Benny can talk.”

Benny wiped away his tears and got serious. 

“It’s true. Every bookie in Reno is after me. All based on a misunderstanding, naturally. But they’re wolves, all of them. So you gotta zip it, or they’ll have me for breakfast.”

The girls zipped their mouths shut as requested, but their silence didn’t last long. 

They were being called to join their fathers on the dance floor.

“Mmon-ah-ay!” 

Teenie said with her lips still zipped shut.

“Huh?” came the response.

Bea unzipped her lips and shouted, “On our way!”

Benny was reduced to tears once more. 

“All I wanted was one last dance,” the rabbit cried. 

“But no, she left me at the altar and didn’t turn back. We never danced again. I never danced again.”

“And there you have it—two father-daughter dances, side by side!” 

Spencer, who’d returned from the police station, was speaking into a scratchy microphone. 

“I think that has even broken the heart of a seventeen-year-old valet disc jockey. Now I need everyone to dance. That means grandmas. Grandpas. Kids. Rabbits.  Everybody. You ready?”

Oliver couldn’t refuse. 

His mother was already on the dance floor. 

Uncle Jeff too. 

The whole Nowonder third-grade class. 

Lita. 

Lito.

Jacques Fondant. 

Aunt Margie. 

Simon. 

Miguel. 

Bea and Teenie. 

Everybody. 

“The bunny hop!” Benny said. 

“How offensive. And they’re doing it wrong. They don’t even know the steps.”

Oliver didn’t know the steps, but he knew he wanted to dance.

“Benny, maybe you can join in just this once,” Oliver said. 

“Show them how it’s done.”

He looked over to his friend, but Benny was gone.

He was already doing the bunny hop, and teaching everyone on the floor.

BENNY’S BUNNY HOP 

1. Stand tall. Hold the hips of the person (or rabbit) in front of you.
2. Stick your right foot out, and bring it back twice. 
3. Stick your left foot out, and bring it back twice.
4. Take one hop forward, and one hop back.
5. Hop forward three times.
6. Repeat.

Oliver tripped over his feet a few times, but soon he too was dancing the night away.

The day may have begun with a man being sawed in half, but it ended with a family being brought together.

Weddings don’t need magic, Oliver thought. 

They are magic.

THE END 

AFTER-PARTY: SAW FOR YOURSELF

After this wonderful magic show and wedding, you may be dreaming of one day finding a special someone to saw in half. 

That day is today. 

You can saw for yourself.

You’ll just need a few household items, a little practice, and a working knowledge of how to cut cardboard safely.

THE SAWED-IN-HALF TRICK: HOME VERSION 

A shoe box
A pair of scissors
An adult’s permission to use the scissors
Tape
Construction paper (best if same color as shoe box)
Two very similar dolls or action figures with heads, feet, and other moveable parts still intact
A gullible audience 
MAKING THE COFFIN 
Using scissors and care, cut the shoebox down the middle. 
Cut the lid as well.
Cut additional holes in the sides of the box. 
This could be difficult and you may damage the box. 
Use tape for any necessary repairs. 

It’s fine to simply cut out one flap on each side, big enough for the doll’s, or action figure’s, feet or head to poke through. 

Your box will now be open at the middle. 

Use construction paper to cover the open sides. 

The setup is complete!

You transformed a lowly shoebox into a magical coffin. 

This is a good time to decorate. 

I recommend glitter. 

But it’s your funeral. 

PREPARE FOR THE TRICK

Hide one doll inside the foot-side of the coffin. 

(This doll will later provide the feet for the doll that is sawed in half.) 

Then put both sides of the coffin back together, and place the coffin on a table or stool.

Place the other doll in the audience, raising their hand in the air. 

This doll will be your volunteer and provide the head in the sawed-in-half trick. 

Now gather the rest of your audience, along with a few additional dolls or action figures, just to make sure it doesn’t look like a setup. 

SHOWTIME

You’re ready to perform! 

Start with some “patter,” which is magician talk for, well . . . talk. 

Tell a joke or simply stick to the script: “I’m about to perform a dangerous feat of magic and daring, not for the faint of heart. Do I have a volunteer?”

Do not choose any living creatures who happen to volunteer.

Choose the plant (I mean doll) you positioned in the audience earlier.

Engage the doll in some small talk. 

Now ask your audience to cover their eyes as your volunteer prepares for the trick.

Place the volunteer doll inside the head-side of the coffin, positioned so that the doll’s head sticks out, while the legs, and the rest of the doll, are hidden inside.

At the same time, maneuver the second doll at the foot of the coffin so that the doll’s feet stick out of the other end. 

At this point, it should look like there is only one doll and only one coffin.

Your audience may open their eyes. 

Reminding your audience that this trick is not for the faint of heart, take out your scissors. 

Cut another piece of construction paper to prove that they’re sharp.

Say some comforting words to your volunteer doll in case the doll is nervous. 

Then cut the coffin right down the middle. 

You already did this, so it should be easy. 

Make it look difficult, though. 

Remember, the audience thinks you’re actually cutting a doll in half.

Once you slice through the coffin, you should pull the two halves apart and show your audience what you’ve done. 

Ta da! 

This is a good time to check in with your volunteer.

Explain to the audience you’re about to do something even more incredible: Put the volunteer back together again. 

You can talk about how you’re doing this with “no medical training or anesthesia.”

Push the two halves of the coffin back together with a magic word like “Voila!” or “Gesundheit!” 

Now remove the doll from the first half of the coffin, unharmed. 

Take care to hide the other doll’s feet at the same time. 

Congratulations!

You’ve sawed your first volunteer!

Now hurry and put the scissors back where you found them, but don’t run! 

About the Author and Illustrator

Pseudonymous Bosch is the infamously anonymous author of the New York Times bestselling Secret Series and the Bad Books. 

Despite rumors to the contrary, his books are not actually written by his pet rabbit, Quiche. 

Nor is he the alter ego of Raphael Simon, a totally unrelated author who lives in Pasadena, CA, with his husband and twin daughters.

Shane Pangburn grew up in rural Illinois and now lives in Los Angeles with his wife and child. 

He produces YALLWEST, the nation's largest youth and young adult literary festival. 

His cartoons and illustrations have appeared in The Daily Dot, numerous college textbooks, and how-to guides. 

He worked as a children's bookseller and textbook illustrator before switching to literary promotion, assisting other authors on their book campaigns. 

What’s next on your reading list?

Discover your next great read!Get personalized book picks and up-to-date news about this author.

Sign up now.** 

You can read all about it in The Unbelievable Oliver and the Four Jokers, available wherever books are sold.

If you’re looking for a birthday gift nobody will steal, might I suggest a book? 

Maybe two?
